 Daily Report 

Friday, 22 March 2024 

This report shows written answers and statements provided on 22 March 2024 and the 
information is correct at the time of publication (03:31 P.M., 22 March 2024). For the latest 
information on written questions and answers, ministerial corrections, and written statements, 
please visit: http://www.parliament.uk/writtenanswers/ 

CONTENTS 

ANSWERS 

BUSINESS AND TRADE 

  Amazon: VAT 

  Arms Trade: Israel 

  Business: Productivity 

  Businesses: Grants 

  Export Controls 

  Exports: Sanctions 

  INEOS: Belgium 

  Motor Vehicles: Exports 

  Sales: Children 

CABINET OFFICE 

  Blood: Contamination 

  Cabinet Office: Legal Costs 

  Infected Blood Inquiry 

CULTURE, MEDIA AND SPORT 

  Arts: South Wales 

  Cinemas: Government 

Assistance 

DEFENCE 

  Afghanistan: Refugees 

  Aircraft Carriers 

  Armed Forces: Housing 

  Armed Forces: Staff 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

6 

6 

7 

7 

8 

8 

8 

8 

9 

9 

10 

10 

10 

11 

11 

11 

12 

12 

  Defence Equipment & 

Support: Staff 

  Defence: Finance 

  Ministry of Defence: Finance 

  Ministry of Defence: VAT 

  Ministry of Defence: 
Workplace Pensions 

  Nuclear Weapons: 

Expenditure 

  Warships 

EDUCATION 

  Alternative Education 

  Alternative Education: Finance 

  Child rearing 

  Childcare: Costs 

  Childcare: South West 

  Childcare: Special Educational 

Needs 

  Children: Care Homes 

  Department for Education: 

Fraud and Maladministration 

  Education: Standards 

  Family Hubs: South West 

  Free Schools: Darlington 

  Herefordshire Children's 
Services: Standards 

12 

14 

14 

17 

17 

18 

18 

18 

18 

19 

19 

21 

22 

23 

24 

24 

25 

25 

26 

26 

 
  Pre-school Education: Finance 

  Schools: Buildings 

  Schools: Finance 

  Schools: Surveys 

  Special Educational Needs 

  Special Educational Needs: 
Bournemouth, Christchurch 
and Poole 

  Special Educational Needs: 

Location 

  Students: Transgender People 

  Teachers: Qualifications 

ENERGY SECURITY AND NET 
ZERO 

  Alternative Fuels: Heating 

  Oil: Refineries 

  Oldbury Power Station and 
Wylfa Power Station: Land 

  Renewable energy: 

Community Development 

  Renewable Energy: Feed-in 

Tariffs 

  Warm Home Discount Scheme 

  Wind Power: Manufacturing 

Industries 

ENVIRONMENT, FOOD AND 
RURAL AFFAIRS 

  Animals (Low-Welfare 

Activities Abroad) Act 2023 

  Climate Change: Investment 

  Dogs: Animal Welfare 

  Dogs: Import Controls 

  Dogs: Public Places 

  Dogs: Smuggling 

  Fish: Consumption 

  Fisheries: Thailand 

27 

28 

31 

32 

33 

35 

35 

36 

36 

36 

36 

37 

37 

37 

38 

38 

38 

39 

39 

39 

40 

41 

41 

42 

42 

43 

  Food: Waste 

  Marine Environment: 

Biodiversity 

  Members: Correspondence 

  Nature for Climate Fund: 

Saltmarshes 

  Tree Planting: Lincolnshire 

  Trees: Diseases 

FOREIGN, COMMONWEALTH 
AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE 

  Arms Trade: Export Controls 

  Mali: Private Military and 

Security Companies 

  Nigeria: Abduction 

  Options: Finance 

  South Sudan: Sudan 

  UNRWA: Finance 

HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE 

  Department of Health and 

Social Care: Domestic Visits 

  Hospitals: Older People 

  Lung Cancer: Screening 

  Medicine: Students 

  Yellow Card Scheme: Medical 

Records 

HOME OFFICE 

  Ask for ANI Scheme: 

Expenditure 

  Asylum 

  Asylum: Hotels 

  Asylum: Rwanda 

  Asylum: Weaver Vale 

  Heathrow Airport: Immigration 

Controls 

  Humberside Police: Burglary 

43 

43 

44 

44 

45 

45 

46 

46 

46 

46 

47 

47 

48 

48 

48 

48 

49 

49 

50 

50 

50 

51 

51 

52 

52 

53 

53 

  Iran: Sanctions 

  Islamic Revolutionary Guard 

Corps 

  Members: Correspondence 

  Retail Trade: Crimes of 

Violence 

  Seasonal Workers: Pay 

  Undocumented Migrants: 

Stoke-on-Trent 

  Vetting: Standards 

  Visas: Care Workers 

JUSTICE 

  Legal Representation 

  Magistrates 

  Prison Officers: Pension 

Rights 

LEVELLING UP, HOUSING AND 
COMMUNITIES 

  Domestic Abuse 

  High Rise Flats: House 

Insurance 

  Housing: Environment 

Protection 

  Housing: Insulation 

SCIENCE, INNOVATION AND 
TECHNOLOGY 

  Advanced Therapy Medicinal 

Products: Scotland 

  Broadband: Social Tariffs 

  Department for Science, 

Innovation and Technology: 
Domestic Visits 

54 

54 

55 

55 

56 

56 

57 

57 

58 

58 

59 

59 

60 

60 

60 

61 

61 

61 

61 

62 

62 

  National Security Online 
Information Team: Social 
Media 

TRANSPORT 

  Avanti West Coast: Catering 

  Cars: Crime Prevention 

  Cars: Insurance 

  Roads: Safety 

TREASURY 

  Banks: Closures 

  Credit: Regulation 

  Debt Collection: Regulation 

  Iran: Financial Institutions 

  Pension Funds 

  Schools: Concrete 

  Tobacco: Smuggling 

  UK Internal Trade: Northern 

Ireland 

WALES 

  Tata Steel: Redundancy 

WORK AND PENSIONS 

  Department for Work and 
Pensions: Domestic Visits 

  Social Security Benefits 

  Social Security Benefits: 

Children 

  Vacancies: South Holland and 

the Deepings 

WRITTEN STATEMENTS 

TREASURY 

63 

63 

63 

64 

64 

64 

65 

65 

66 

66 

66 

67 

68 

68 

68 

69 

69 

69 

69 

70 

70 

70 

71 

71 

  Scottish Government and 

Welsh Government funding 

71 

Notes: 

Questions marked thus [R] indicate that a relevant interest has been declared. 

 
Questions with identification numbers of 900000 or greater indicate that the question was originally tabled as an 
oral question and has since been unstarred. 

ANSWERS 

  BUSINESS AND TRADE 

  Amazon: VAT 

Stephen Morgan:        

 [18784] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, whether her Department is taking 
steps with Cabinet colleagues and Amazon to help support businesses that use that 
website to demonstrate that they are UK-based for VAT purposes. 

Kevin Hollinrake: 
I have written to Amazon's UK Country Manager on two occasions as well as met 
them in person to discuss this issue. I have requested that Amazon unfreeze 
business accounts and provide support for those impacted. 

Government officials continue to signpost sellers to support, working alongside the 
Small Business Commissioner, who is in regular contact with Amazon to highlight 
specific cases. 

Steps taken by the Government and the Small Business Commissioner have led to 
cases being resolved, with online sellers receiving their withheld funds and resuming 
trading. We will continue working with Amazon until this issue is fully resolved. 

  Arms Trade: Israel 

Fleur Anderson:        

 [19485] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, whether there are pending 
applications for arms export licences for arms to Israel as of 19 March 2024. 

Greg Hands: 
HM Government publishes data on export licensing decisions on a quarterly basis in 
the Official Statistics, including data on outcome, end user destination, overall value, 
type (e.g. military, other) and a summary of the items covered by these licences. This 
data is available at: https://www.gov.uk/guidance/strategic-export-controls-licensing-
data. 

The most recent Official Statistics cover the period 1 April - 30 June 2023. 

Information regarding export licensing decisions made between 1 July – 30 
September 2023 will be published after April 2024 and information regarding export 
licensing decisions made between 1 October – 31 March 2024 will be published later 
this year. 

  Business: Productivity 

Mr Gregory Campbell:        

 [19296] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, what comparative assessment she 
has made of the level of business productivity in (a) 2018 and (b) 2023. 

Kevin Hollinrake: 
Productivity is the main driver of long-run economic growth and a key determinant of 
living standards. We continue to assess ONS inflation adjusted data. Details covering 
2018 and 2023 Q3 are detailed below. 

CHAINED VOLUME MEASURE 
INDEX 2019 

OUTPUT PER HOUR WORKED 

OUTPUT PER WORKER 

2018 

2023 Q3 

99.6 

103 

99.4 

100.9 

The Government continues to improve access to finance, skills, business support and 
to address barriers to trade using schemes such as Help to Grow: Management, 
British Business Bank programmes and the Export Academy. 

  Businesses: Grants 

Rachael Maskell:        

 [18746] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, what steps his Department is 
taking to ensure (a) maximum value for money and (b) equal regional distribution when 
awarding grant funding to businesses. 

Kevin Hollinrake: 
Development and delivery of grant schemes within the Department is in line with the 
principles of Managing Public Money and also addresses the Government Grant 
Functional Standards’ requirements. 

The Department delivers various grant schemes tailored to address specific regional 
and sectoral needs, emergency response and the government’s wider policy agenda. 

  Export Controls 

Layla Moran:        

 [19446] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, whether she plans to undertake a 
new review of (a) existing and (b) pending export licences. 

Ms Nusrat Ghani: 
All export licences are kept under careful and continual review as standard. We are 
able to amend, suspend or revoke extant licences and refuse new licence 
applications as circumstances require. 

The FCDO advises DBT on the situation in country and the risks this poses with 
respect to the UK’s export control responsibilities. The MOD advises DBT on the risks 
of diversion of exported goods and national security risks arising from hostile state 
activity. 

 
  Exports: Sanctions 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [19432] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, whether her Department has (a) 
taken steps to help support exporters to comply and (b) issued guidance to exporters on 
compliance with international sanctions. 

Ms Nusrat Ghani: 
Non-compliance with sanctions is a serious offence. We expect and support UK 
businesses to take steps to reduce their risk and comply with sanctions. 

We regularly engage with exporters, have published statutory and non-statutory 
guidance, and issued notices to exporters on due diligence and circumvention risk. 

We recently announced that we are creating the Office of Trade Sanctions 
Implementation, which will strengthen the implementation and enforcement of our 
trade sanctions once operational, including through additional business outreach and 
guidance. 

INEOS: Belgium 

Martyn Day:        

 [18755] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, with reference to the notice by UK 
Export Finance entitled Category A project supported: INEOS Project One, Belgium, 
published on 14 April 2023, whether her Department has made an assessment of the 
potential impact of that decision on the development of (a) energy generation and (b) 
energy production sites in the UK. 

Greg Hands: 
UK Export Finance (UKEF) has not made an assessment of the potential impact on 
the development of (a) energy generation and (b) energy production sites in the UK. 

In its role as the United Kingdom’s export credit agency, UKEF has issued a 
guarantee to commercial lenders who are funding the project. That support will help 
to secure new export opportunities for UK businesses that otherwise may not have 
been possible. 

As with every transaction that it supports, UKEF conducted rigorous due diligence in 
line with the government’s policies and obligations to inform its decision-making on 
Project One. This included consideration of environmental and climate impacts. 

Kenny MacAskill:        

 [19476] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, pursuant to the Answer of 13 
March to Question 17476 on INEOS: Belgium, how many jobs will be created as a result 
of the funding. 

Greg Hands: 
UK Export Finance (UKEF) does not provide direct funding. It issued a guarantee to 
commercial lenders to help secure new export opportunities for the UK, which in turn 

 
support jobs across the UK, both in those businesses with which INEOS contracts 
directly, and in their supply chains. 

In 2022-23, UKEF provided £6.5 billion of support in total, which is estimated to have 
backed up to 55,000 jobs across the UK. 

  Motor Vehicles: Exports 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [19431] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, whether she has had discussions 
with the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders on the level of vehicle exports to 
Azerbaijan. 

Ms Nusrat Ghani: 
DBT ministers regularly meet with sector bodies and companies to discuss a variety 
of issues. This includes meetings with The Society of Motor Manufacturers and 
Traders and automotive companies where trade issues are discussed. 

  Sales: Children 

Naz Shah:        

 [18889] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade, whether she plans to improve 
processes for reporting businesses selling age-restricted products to underage 
customers. 

Kevin Hollinrake: 
Enforcement of sales of age-restricted products is governed by distinct legislation and 
the respective lead department. 

The Department supports enforcement efforts in England and Wales through funding 
for Citizens Advice Consumer Service, to relay crucial intelligence to local Trading 
Standards. To report suspected illegal sales to minors, the public is encouraged to 
contact Citizens Advice on 0808 223 1133, or Advice Direct Scotland on 0808 164 
6000. 

Additionally, individuals can report suspected traders to the police using the non-
emergency number, 101. 

  CABINET OFFICE 

  Blood: Contamination 

Dame Diana Johnson:        

 [19300] 

To ask the Minister for the Cabinet Office, on what dates four nations ministerial meetings 
have taken place on the topic of infected blood in the last 12 months. 

John Glen: 
I, and my predecessors in this role, have met with Ministers across the four nations a 
number of times in the last 12 months, and will be doing so again ahead of tabling a 
Government amendment for Report Stage of the Victims and Prisoners Bill. 

Alison Thewliss:        

 [19385] 

To ask the Minister for the Cabinet Office, with reference to the joint letter to him from 
Scottish and Welsh Ministers in relation to Infected Blood Compensation and Interim 
Payments, dated 22 January 2024, when he plans to make interim compensation 
payments to bereaved parents and children. 

John Glen: 
In October 2022, we made interim payments of £100,000 to chronic infected 
beneficiaries and bereaved partners registered with existing support schemes. I 
recognise the importance the infected blood community places on interim payments 
relating to those deaths not yet recognised, and the Government is working through 
the technical implications of recommendation 12. 

  Cabinet Office: Legal Costs 

Pat McFadden:        

 [19020] 

To ask the Minister for the Cabinet Office, what the total cost to the public purse was of 
legal (a) support and (b) representation to Ministers in his Department in relation to their 
official conduct in each of the last three years. 

John Glen: 
Such information is not centrally recorded or collated in the form requested. More 
generally, I would refer the hon. Member to the long-standing policies on legal 
expenditure, as set out recently by Cabinet Office Ministers on 12 March 2024, 
Official Report, PQ 17709 and 12 March 2024, Official Report, House of Lords, Cols. 
1901-1904 

Infected Blood Inquiry 

Dame Diana Johnson:        

 [19302] 

To ask the Minister for the Cabinet Office, pursuant to the Answer of 13 March 2024 to 
Question 17717 on Infected Blood Inquiry: Pay, on what dates the expert group has met. 

John Glen: 
The Infected Blood Inquiry response expert group meets weekly and have met in full 
seven times as of 20th March. As the work of the expert group relates to the 
formulation and development of Government policy, their advice, evidence and 
methodologies as well as the terms of reference, minutes and agendas of their 
meetings have not been published at this time. 

 
  CULTURE, MEDIA AND SPORT 

  Arts: South Wales 

Stephen Doughty:        

 [19069] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, what steps she is taking to 
support the (a) growth and (b) development of the creative industries in South Wales. 

Julia Lopez: 
The UK Government has a clear plan to grow the creative industries by a further £50 
billion and add another 1 million jobs by 2030. As set out in the Creative Industries 
Sector Vision, we are committed to working with industry and the devolved 
administrations to ensure our creative industries continue to be the best in the world. 
As part of this, we invited Creative Wales to become a member of the Creative 
Industries Council to ensure they are represented in discussions about the UK’s 
creative industries. 

Culture and the creative industries are devolved policy areas. The UK Government 
has provided opportunities to support Welsh creative businesses through the 
following programmes: 

•  The UK-wide Film & TV Restart scheme which supported 1,259 individual film and 
TV productions and £3.06 billion in production expenditure through the pandemic. 
Wales received £287.5 million – the largest share of funding of any nation after 
England (c.9%). 

•  The £56 million Creative Clusters programme was announced in the 2018 Sector 

Deal: and supported R&D across the Cardiff Clwstwr one of 9 first-wave of clusters 
across the UK. The Clusters programme has generated approximately £252 million 
of private co-investment, creating or safeguarding over 4000 jobs. 

  Cinemas: Government Assistance 

Dr Neil Hudson:        

 [18821] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, whether her Department has 
taken recent steps to support independent cinemas. 

Julia Lopez: 
The Government recognises that cinemas are a hugely important part of the UK’s 
fantastic film industry and has been supporting them throughout the uncertainties of 
the past several years with the pandemic and rising energy costs. 

We supported more than 200 independent cinemas through the pandemic, who 
received £34.4 million from the Culture Recovery Fund as well as benefiting from 
other pan-economy measures. The Government has also delivered an £18 billion 
package of support through the Energy Bill Relief Scheme supporting businesses - 
including cinemas, arts venues, and charities - through the winter. 

The Government’s £500m Film and TV Production Restart Scheme also helped keep 
the cameras rolling at the other end of the screen supply chain. The scheme 

supported over 100,000 jobs and productions worth more than £3 billion. To build on 
this, and support the industry to not only survive but thrive, further actions have been 
taken. This includes the Government’s current £1.6 million annual funding of the 
British Film Commission, the £28 million UK Global Screen Fund, and the continued 
success of our screen sector tax reliefs. This has been further bolstered at Spring 
Budget 2024 with the new UK Independent Film Tax Credit, with films with budgets 
up to £15 million being eligible for an increased benefit of 53% - which is estimated to 
increase spending on independent films by 70% before 2032. 

The British Film Institute (BFI), a DCMS Arms Length Body, is also conscious of the 
pressures faced by the cinema sector. The BFI’s Film Audience Network (BFI FAN) is 
a collaboration of 8 film hubs, managed by leading film organisations and venues 
around the UK. Film hubs are centres of expertise and support that connect cinemas, 
festivals and creative practitioners. You can also read more about the National 
Lottery funding the BFI makes available to bring film to a wider UK audience, 
including through BFI FAN, at: https://www.bfi.org.uk/get-funding-support/bring-film-
wider-uk-audience. 

  DEFENCE 

  Afghanistan: Refugees 

Stewart Malcolm McDonald:        

 [17909] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, when the ARAP eligibility standard operating 
procedure was first changed to give the relevant Other Government Department the 
power to reject a member of the Afghan (a) CF 333 and (b) ATF 444 unit applying to the 
scheme. 

James Heappey: 
There is no ARAP eligibility standard operating procedure that provides a relevant 
Other Government Department with the power to reject an application. 

When considering Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy scheme applications 
under Category 4, Ministry of Defence (MoD) caseworkers seek input into decision-
making from other parts of the MoD, Other Government Departments and 
governmental bodies, where they are likely to hold useful information relating to an 
individual's application. 

Every individual application is considered on a case-by-case basis in line with our 
published ARAP criteria, including applications considered under Category 4. 

  Aircraft Carriers 

Stephen Morgan:        

 [18593] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, whether he has made a recent assessment of 
the UK's capacity to replace the current aircraft carrier force. 

James Cartlidge: 
On current plans, the out of service date for the Queen Elizabeth Class (QEC) 
carriers is 2069. 

The Royal Navy (RN) continually assesses its force structures and abilities based 
upon constant operational analysis and intelligence led threat assessments. 

  Armed Forces: Housing 

Stephen Morgan:        

 [18791] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what recent assessment he has made of the 
adequacy of service accommodation. 

James Cartlidge: 
Currently, 96% of Service Family Accommodation (SFA) meets or exceeds the 
Government’s Decent Homes Standard. Only these properties should be allocated to 
families. 

This Government continues to invest significant sums to improve the quality of UK 
SFA. The Defence Infrastructure Organisation received an investment of £400M over 
this Financial Year and next, as part of the Defence Command Paper Refresh 2023. 
This is being spent on improving the preparation of homes; treating and preventing 
damp and mould and improving thermal efficiency; and refurbishing empty homes in 
high demand areas. 

  Armed Forces: Staff 

Stephen Morgan:        

 [18792] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what steps he is taking to the adequacy of 
staffing levels in the Armed Forces. 

Dr Andrew Murrison: 
I refer the hon. Member to the answer I gave on 19 January 2024 to Question 9841 to 
the hon. Member for Barnsley Central (Dan Jarvis). 

Attachments: 

1.  Armed Forces Recruitment [9841 - Armed Forces Recruitment.docx] 

  Defence Equipment & Support: Staff 

Maria Eagle:        

 [19268] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, how many people were employed in the land 
combat vehicles team at Defence Equipment and Support in each year since 2019. 

James Cartlidge: 
The number of Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employed in the Land Combat Vehicles 
team in each Financial Year (FY) since 2019 as at 31 March, is detailed in the table 
below. The figures include civilian and military employees, and workforce substitutes. 

Figures for 2023-24 will not be available until the end of the FY. 

FINANCIAL YEAR 

LAND COMBAT VEHICLES TEAM 

2018-19 

2019-20 

2020-21 

2021-22 

2022-23 

143.4 

133.0 

140.1 

150.7 

149.2 

Maria Eagle:        

 [19269] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, how many people were employed in the Ajax 
armoured vehicle team at Defence Equipment and Support in each year since 2019. 

James Cartlidge: 
The number of Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employed in the Ajax team in each 
Financial Year (FY) since 2019 as at 31 March, is detailed in the table below. The 
figures include civilian and military employees, and workforce substitutes. 

Figures for 2023-24 will not be available until the end of the FY. 

FINANCIAL YEAR 

AJAX TEAM 

2018-19 

2019-20 

2020-21 

2021-22 

2022-23 

142 

153 

162 

165 

167 

Maria Eagle:        

 [19273] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, how many people were employed in the 
helicopters team at Defence Equipment and Support in each year since 2019. 

James Cartlidge: 
The number of Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employed in the Helicopters Operating 
Centre (Hels OC) in each Financial Year (FY) since 2019 as at 31 March, is detailed 
in the table below. The figures include civilian and military employees, and workforce 
substitutes. 

Figures for 2023-24 will not be available until the end of the FY. 

 
 
FINANCIAL YEAR 

HELICOPTERS OC 

2018-19 

2019-20 

2020-21 

2021-22 

2022-23 

Note: 

797.8 

825.0 

804.7 

723.2 

773.6 

•  The figures reported are for the Helicopters Operating Centre because a single 

specific helicopter team does not exist. 

  Defence: Finance 

Stephen Morgan:        

 [18788] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what recent assessment he has made of the 
adequacy of his Department's budget for its military capability requirements. 

James Cartlidge: 
UK defence spending is at its highest level in history and is increasing in real terms. 
Over the next decade we have increased the budget for our Equipment Plan to 
£288.6 billion and we have set out our longer-term aspiration to invest 2.5% of GDP 
on defence when the fiscal and economic circumstances allow. 

We continue to meet all operational commitments, including participating in every 
single NATO mission and tackling Houthi attacks on shipping in the Red Sea. 

  Ministry of Defence: Finance 

Maria Eagle:        

 [18666] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what the projected annual budget is for the 
Maritime Combat Systems Team for (a) 2023-24, (b) 2024-25 and (c) 2025-26. 

Maria Eagle:        

 [18667] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what the projected annual budget is for the 
Marine Systems Support Team in (a) 2023-24, (b) 2024-25 and (c) 2025-26. 

Maria Eagle:        

 [18668] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what the projected annual budget is for the 
Boats Team in (a) 2023-24, (b) 2024-25 and (c) 2025-26. 

James Cartlidge: 
The requested information, where available, is provided in the tables below. This 
information represents the projected annual equipment expenditure and operating 
cost forecasts of the named teams by financial year (FY). 

 
EQUIPMENT COSTS (£MILLION) 

Team 

FY 23-24 

FY 24-25 

FY 25-26 

Naval Ships Support  691.14 

315.88 

Maritime Combat 
Systems 

Marine Systems 
Support 

739.70 

537.01 

616.61 

537.91 

162.42 

195.90 

201.82 

Boats 

81.07 

82.47 

88.86 

OPERATING COSTS (£MILLION) 

Team 

Naval Ships Support 

Maritime Combat Systems 

Marine Systems Support 

Boats 

FY 23-24 

22.36 

25.82 

17.91 

3.61 

The Future Maritime Platforms team forms part of the wider Ship Acquisition 
Directorate and has no separately identified budget. 

Annual Operating Cost budgets by team for 2024-25 are not available and for 25-26 
have not yet been forecast. 

Due to the Operating Model work currently underway in DE&S, the current team 
structures are likely to change significantly, and we anticipate that the way that 
budgets are apportioned will also change. 

Maria Eagle:        

 [18673] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what the projected annual budget is for the 
Soldier Training and Special Projects Team in (a) 2023-24, (b) 2024-25 and (c) 2025-26. 

James Cartlidge: 
The figures presented below represent the projected annual operating expenditure 
budget and forecast costs for the Soldier Training and Special Projects Team at 
Defence Equipment and Support (DE&S). 

The Soldier Training and Special Projects Team forecast equipment costs by 
financial year are as follows: 

 
 
FINANCIAL YEAR 

CONTRACT SPEND £MILLION 

FY2023/24 

FY2024/25 

FY2025/26 

£333.49 

£319.20 

£311.58 

The Soldier Training and Special Projects Team forecast operating costs by financial 
year are as follows: 

FINANCIAL YEAR 

FY2023/24 

Notes: 

TOTAL SPEND £MILLION 

£23.68 

• 

It should be noted that the annual operating costs for 2024-25 and beyond are not 
available. 

•  Due to the Operating Model work currently underway in DE&S, the current team 
structure is likely to change significantly, and we anticipate that the way that 
budgets are apportioned will also change. 

Maria Eagle:        

 [18854] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what the budget for the UK Military Flying 
Training Systems team at Defence Equipment and Support is in the (a) 2023-24, (b) 
2024-25 and (c) 2025-26 financial year. 

James Cartlidge: 
The figures presented in this table represent the projected annual operating 
expenditure budget and forecast costs for the UK Military Flying Training Systems 
team at Defence Equipment and Support (DE&S). 

The UK Military Flying Training Systems team forecast equipment costs by financial 
year is as follows: 

FY 

2023/24 

2024/25 

2025/26 

TOTAL SPEND (£MILLION) 

331.03 

376.01 

359.70 

The UK Military Flying Training Systems team forecast operating costs by financial 
year is as follows: 

 
 
 
FY 

2023/24 

TOTAL SPEND (£MILLION) 

12.90 

  Ministry of Defence: VAT 

James Gray:        

 [18640] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, how much VAT was paid by his Department to 
HM Treasury in each of the last three years; whether such payments are notional balance 
sheet transactions ; and whether such payment count towards the NATO target of 2 
percent of GDP spent on defence. 

James Cartlidge: 
The table below provides details of VAT paid and not recovered by MOD’s main VAT 
registration for the previous three financial years (FY). 

VAT PAID BY HMRC AND NOT RECOVERED£MILLION 

FY20/21 

FY21/22 

FY22/23 

Total 

3,026 

3,143 

3,607 

9,776 

These payments are not notional balance sheet transactions. They are are actual 
cash payments made by MOD and are accordingly considered part of the 
Department’s spend for NATO purposes. 

  Ministry of Defence: Workplace Pensions 

James Gray:        

 [18641] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, which pensions his Department has 
responsibility for are counted towards the NATO target of spending two percent of GDP 
on defence; and what the value of such pension payments was in the latest period for 
which figures are available. 

James Cartlidge: 
Under NATO guidance pensions for defence personnel form part of qualifying 
defence spend. This includes both military pensions and Ministry of Defence civil 
servants. For Financial Year 2022-23, this is £1,523 million and £123 million 
respectively. 

 
 
  Nuclear Weapons: Expenditure 

Martin Docherty-Hughes:        

 [18719] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what assessment he has made of the impact 
of his Department's expenditure on a replacement nuclear deterrent on the non-nuclear 
equipment budget. 

James Cartlidge: 
Funding for programmes in the Defence Nuclear Enterprise is now ringfenced within 
the Defence budget. This will help to protect the wider Equipment Plan budget from 
any financial pressures in nuclear programmes. 

  Warships 

Stephen Morgan:        

 [18592] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Defence, what steps he is taking to prevent the 
mothballing of Royal Navy ships. 

James Cartlidge: 
The Royal Navy (RN) is allocated resources and tasked at a Departmental level. The 
RN then generates the Fleet as necessary to meet the readiness profile it has been 
tasked with and use its people and resources in the most efficient manner. 

  EDUCATION 

  Alternative Education 

Rachael Maskell:        

 [15939] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what steps she is taking to help provide 
alternative learning opportunities for cases of school refusal among children. 

David Johnston: 
Local authorities have the responsibility for arranging and providing suitable 
alternative provision for children of compulsory schooling age unable to receive their 
education in school due to ill health, under section 19 of the Education Act. 

The department expects and encourages schools to work with families or carers and 
with the child themselves to arrange and put in place suitable provision that will help 
the child re-engage in education. 

If a school believes they can no longer support the child’s needs, the local authority 
should arrange alternative provision that will provide suitable education and targeted 
support to help the child overcome their barriers to learning and to re-engage back 
into mainstream schooling. 

The department’s ‘Working together to improve school attendance’ guidance also 
makes clear that schools and local authorities should be taking a ‘support first’ 
approach to attendance challenges. 

  Alternative Education: Finance 

Rachael Maskell:        

 [16713] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what steps she is taking to help support local 
authorities to provide adequate levels of (a) estate and (b) workforce for alternative 
provision for children at secondary schools. 

David Johnston: 
The department has published over £1.5 billion of high needs provision capital 
allocations for the 2022/23 and 2023/24 financial years. This funding is allocated to 
local authorities to support their delivery of new places and improve existing provision 
for children and young people with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) 
or who require alternative provision (AP). 

This funding forms part of the department’s transformational investment of £2.6 billion 
in new high needs provision between 2022 and 2025 and is on top of the ongoing 
departmental delivery of new special and AP free schools. On 6 March 2024, my right 
hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, announced 20 successful applications 
for new AP free schools creating over 1,700 new places. 

In the SEND and AP Improvement Plan, published March 2023, the department set 
out its intention to give AP schools funding stability by requiring local authorities to 
create and distribute an AP specific budget. This will mean that resources can be 
targeted and distributed more effectively, supporting AP schools to recruit and retain 
high-quality staff. 

  Child rearing 

Alex Cunningham:        

 [16734] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what steps her Department is taking to 
improve the accessibility of evidence-based parenting support for parents and families 
residing in local authority areas that do not offer Family Hubs. 

Alex Cunningham:        

 [16736] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether her Department has made a 
comparative assessment of the effectiveness of (a) evidence-based parenting 
programmes and (b) other interventions to support parents. 

Alex Cunningham:        

 [16738] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, with reference the Social Mobility 
Commission's publication entitled Family and parenting programmes: rapid evidence 
assessment, published in October 2023, what assessment her Department has made of 
the role of evidence-based parenting programmes in ensuring value for money from 
expenditure on parenting support. 

Alex Cunningham:        

 [16739] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether her Department has made an 
assessment of the potential merits of funding a digital roll out of evidence-based 

parenting programmes similar to the scheme announced by the Australian Federal 
Government in 2022. 

David Johnston: 
The Family Hubs and Start for Life programme aims to improve access to services for 
parents and families with children 0-19 or up to 25 for those with special educational 
needs and disabilities. It provides funding for parenting support as part of the Start for 
Life offer to be used on evidence-based programmes alongside peer support and 
community outreach activities. 

The department has selected 75 local authorities based on levels of disadvantage. 
The department would like to see Family Hubs open across the country. The 
departments initial focus is on delivering well in the local areas that it is currently 
working with and building a model and evidence base. The department can then look 
to expand further in the future. 

The published programme guide sets out requirements for local authorities to invest 
in evidence-based programmes with encouragement to select those that feature in 
published guidance, which have been rigorously evaluated and demonstrated impact. 

The programme guide can be found at: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/family-hubs-and-start-for-life-
programme-local-authority-guide. The published guidance is available at: 
https://guidebook.eif.org.uk/programme/incredible-years-preschool. 

The department is working with the local authorities selected for the programme to 
assess delivery of all funded services in Family Hubs, and evidence-based parenting 
programmes are included as part of this. A comprehensive external evaluation of the 
parenting support offer has been commissioned and is due to report in late 2025. 
This evaluation will explore how well different parenting programmes have been 
implemented into the Family Hubs model. It will include a quasi-experimental impact 
evaluation that will assess the outcomes for families and an assessment of the value 
for money offered by the programme as a whole. 

The department is currently considering options for widening access to parenting 
support through Family Hubs and as such undertaking assessments of the 
effectiveness and value for money of evidence-based parenting programmes, as well 
as other forms of support for parents. As part of this work to inform future fiscal 
events, the department considers policies from across the world, including Australia, 
to inform departmental thinking. This scoping work also includes engaging with the 
Social Mobility Commission following their recent report into family and parenting 
programmes. 

The department is also investing over £17 million on the Nuffield Early Language 
Intervention (NELI) in order to improve the language skills of reception age children 
who need it most following the pandemic. This evidence-based programme targets 
children needing extra support with their speech and language development and is 
proven to help them make four months of additional progress, and seven months for 
those on free school meals. Over 500,000 children have had their language 

screened, with 160,000 reception age children having received extra support with 
their speech and language development from this proven programme. 

Alongside investing in parenting support and the NELI programme, the department 
has also launched a national media campaign ‘Little Moments Together’ to 
encourage parents to chat, play and read with their pre-school children. The 
campaign, run jointly with the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities, provides 
evidence-based advice for parents on the NHS Better Health Start for Life website, 
and support from national partners on activities for parents. Little Moments Together 
is based on long-standing evidence on the importance of the home learning 
environment to providing children the best start to life. The Better Health Start for Life 
website can be found at: https://www.nhs.uk/start-for-life/early-learning-development/. 

  Childcare: Costs 

Rachael Maskell:        

 [16826] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether she has had discussions with the 
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions on the (a) affordability of childcare and (b) 
potential impact of conditionality requirements for benefits on people's ability to afford 
childcare. 

David Johnston: 
Officials across the Department for Education and Department for Work and 
Pensions continue to work closely and extensively together to ensure that families in 
receipt of benefits are not disadvantaged in any way in accessing childcare. 

Childcare is a vital enabler for parents to work. By the 2027/28 financial year, this 
government will expect to be spending more than £8 billion every year on free 
childcare hours and early education, helping working families with their childcare 
costs. This represents the single biggest investment in childcare in England ever, and 
is set to save working families using the full 30 funded hours up to £6,500 per year 
from when their child is nine months until they are five years old by September 2025. 
By 2027/28, the Office for Budget Responsibility expects around 60,000 parents to 
enter employment, and for there to be an equivalent effect on the 1.5 million mothers 
of young children already in work, increasing their hours by a small amount. 

In addition to the expanded entitlements, the government has also taken action to 
support parents on Universal Credit with childcare costs upfront when they need it, 
rather than in arrears. The department has increased support for these parents by 
increasing the childcare cost maximum amounts to £950 for one child and £1,629 for 
two children. This is an increase from the current rate of up to 70% in the Tax Credit 
and Universal Credit systems. Families will benefit from the decision to increase the 
rate of childcare costs support from 70% to 85% and will get more out of the money 
they earn. 

  Childcare: South West 

Mr Tobias Ellwood:        

 [17068] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what steps she is taking to increase 
childcare provision in (a) Bournemouth East constituency and (b) the South West. 

David Johnston: 
Under Section 6 of the Childcare Act 2006, local authorities are responsible for 
ensuring that the provision of childcare is sufficient to meet the requirements of 
parents in their area. Part B of the early education and childcare statutory guidance 
for local authorities highlights that local authorities are required to report annually to 
elected council members on how they are meeting their duty to secure sufficient 
childcare, and to make this report available and accessible to parents. 

In the government’s 2023 Spring Budget, my right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the 
Exchequer, announced transformative reforms to childcare for parents, children and 
the economy. By the 2027/28 financial year, this government expects to be spending 
in excess of £8 billion every year on free hours and early education, helping families 
with pre-school children with their childcare costs. This represents the single biggest 
investment in childcare in England ever and is set to save working families using the 
full 30 funded hours up to £6,500 per year from when their child is nine months until 
they are five years old by September 2025. 

Funding will be key to delivering the existing and expanded childcare entitlements. 
The department has substantially uplifted the hourly rate paid to local authorities to 
increase hourly rates paid to childcare providers. In the 2024/25 financial year, the 
department is investing over £400 million additional funding to deliver a significant 
uplift to hourly rates, building on the £204 million of additional funding paid in 
September. 

To support the sector further to deliver the expansion of childcare support, the 
government is confirming that the hourly rate that providers are paid to deliver the 
free hours offers will increase in line with the metric used in the Spring Budget 2023. 
This reflects that workforce costs are the most significant costs for childcare providers 
and represents an additional £500 million of investment over financial years 2025/26 
and 2026/27. 

Alongside increasing funding rates, the government is allocating £100 million in 
capital funding to local authorities in the 2023/24 financial year to support the 
expansion of childcare places for eligible working parents and to increase the supply 
of wraparound care in primary schools. The funding is anticipated to deliver 
thousands of new places across the country. 

Following the department’s consultation on changes to the early years foundation 
stage framework, the department has introduced flexibilities that aim to make things 
easier for providers, as well as continuing to explore how the department can support 
the sector to deliver the additional places that will be required. 

The department is ensuring a phased implementation of the expansion to the 30 
hours offer to allow the market to develop the necessary capacity. On 2 February 
2024, the department launched ‘Do something big, Work with small children’, a new 
national recruitment campaign to support the recruitment and retention of talented 
staff to support the expansion of the 30 hours offer. This campaign will raise the 
profile of the sector, support the recruitment of talented staff, and recognise the 
lifelong impact those working in early years and childcare have on children and their 
families. 

The department is also continuing to monitor the sufficiency of childcare places 
across the sector. The department’s childcare and early years provider survey shows 
that both the number of places available and the workforce has increased since 2022. 

The department has regular contact with each local authority in England about their 
sufficiency of childcare and any issues they are facing. 

Where local authorities report sufficiency challenges, the department discusses what 
action the local authority is taking to address those issues and, where needed, 
supports the local authority with any specific requirements through the department’s 
childcare sufficiency support contract. 

  Childcare: Special Educational Needs 

Justin Madders:        

 [16710] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, if she will make an assessment of the 
adequacy of the availability of childcare for children with special educational needs in 
each constituency. 

David Johnston: 
The department recognises the importance of ensuring that local authorities provide 
sufficient childcare services for children with special educational needs and 
disabilities (SEND). The department continues to work closely with local authorities to 
monitor sufficiency of places for children in early years, including for those children 
with SEND. 

The local authority statutory guidance on early education and childcare sets out a 
clear requirement that local authorities must report annually to elected council 
members on how they are meeting their duty to secure sufficient childcare and make 
this report available and accessible to parents. The statutory guidance is clear that 
the report should include a specific reference to how they are ensuring sufficient 
childcare is available to children with SEND. 

The department is introducing Local Area Inclusion Plans (LAIPs) which are 3 year 
plans that explain how the needs of children and young people with SEND aged 0 to 
25 in an area will be met. LAIPs will be monitored and reviewed by the department 
and be underpinned by strengthened accountabilities and improved use of data for all 
those responsible for local delivery of places. 

  Children: Care Homes 

Helen Hayes:        

 [17452] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, with reference to paragraph 2.25(3) of the 
Spring Budget 2024, HC 560, published on 6 March 2024, how much and what proportion 
of the £165 million funding for the children’s homes estate will be spent on (a) new 
children’s homes, (b) rebuilding children’s homes and (c) repairing existing children's 
homes in each local authority area; and if she will make an estimate of the number of new 
places that will be created. 

David Johnston: 
In the Spring Budget, the department was awarded £165 million capital funding to 
invest in open and secure children’s homes. This consists of £45 million match 
funding to local authorities to create 200 new open children’s home (OCH) 
placements for the most vulnerable children, and £120 million to fund the 
maintenance of the existing secure children’s home (SCH) estate and rebuild 
Atkinson SCH and Swanwick SCH. 

It will be for local authorities in receipt of this OCH match funding to decide how best 
to deliver these additional 200 placements to meet the needs of the children they look 
after. 

The department will work with Atkinson and Swanwick SCHs and other SCHs to 
determine the number of places and maintenance required to meet current and future 
needs of the individual SCHs and the SCH estate as a whole. The department will 
then allocate the £120 million to the SCHs on this basis. 

  Department for Education: Fraud and Maladministration 

Jonathan Ashworth:        

 [18452] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, with reference to the report entitled Cross-
Government Fraud Landscape: Annual Report 2022, published on 21 March 2023, what 
the basis is of the increase in detected error in her Department from £7.5m in 2019-20 to 
£29.1m in 2020-21. 

Damian Hinds: 
The increase in detected error was driven by the department migrating some of its 
financial services from an external provider to a pre-existing in-house service. 

All detected errors were corrected within the financial quarter in which they occurred. 
No losses were incurred. 

Where errors occur, the department operates a robust process to ensure lessons are 
learned and corrective actions embedded into processes and ways of working. This is 
reflected in the drop back to zero detected errors in quarter 3 and quarter 4 of the 
year. 

  Education: Standards 

Damien Moore:        

 [18282] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent assessment her Department has 
made of the progress on improving educational outcomes in the 55 education investment 
areas. 

Damian Hinds: 
The Education Investment Areas (EIA) programme is in its infancy, and it is too early 
to attribute any changes in educational outcomes in these areas to the initiatives 
made available to schools through the EIA programmes. 

The department will, internally, monitor changes in key stage 2 and key stage 4 
attainment in EIAs and consider any fluctuations. The department intends to review 
their impact following the publication of the 2023/24 academic year data. 

  Family Hubs: South West 

Mr Tobias Ellwood:        

 [17067] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what progress her Department has made on 
expanding Family Hubs to (a) Bournemouth East constituency and (b) the South West. 

David Johnston: 
The £12 million family hubs transformation fund (TF1) is supporting 13 local 
authorities, including Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole (BCP), with the costs of 
transforming to a Family Hub model of service delivery and a strong Start for Life 
offer at its core. Further information about BCP's Family Hubs can be found on their 
website at: https://www.fid.bcpcouncil.gov.uk/family-information-
directory/information/family-hubs/family-hubs-early-help-and-outreach-centres. 

As part of the Family Hubs Start for Life programme, the department is also investing 
£300 million in 75 local authorities. Funding has been targeted to the most deprived 
local authorities, ensuring families get the support they need. This will fund a network 
of Family Hubs and specific support within those hubs for parent–infant mental 
health, infant feeding services, parenting support, home learning environment, and to 
establish parent-carer panels. In addition, all 75 local authorities will publish their 
Start for Life offer and the department will be providing funding for trials of innovative 
workforce models to a smaller number of local authorities. 

As part of the Family Hubs Start for Life programme, the department is funding 4 
local authorities in the South West, which are Bristol, Cornwall, Plymouth and Torbay. 
Further information on Family Hubs in Bristol is available at: 
https://www.bristol.gov.uk/residents/social-care-and-health/children-and-families/help-
for-families/family-hubs. Further information on Family Hubs in Torbay is available at: 
https://torbayfamilyhub.org.uk/. Further information on Family Hubs in Plymouth is 
available at: https://www.plymouth.gov.uk/family-hubs. Further information on Family 
Hubs in Cornwall is available at: https://www.cornwall.gov.uk/health-and-social-
care/childrens-services/family-hubs/. 

The department is currently in year 2 of the programme, and all local authorities have 
opened at least one Family Hub and are focusing on delivering the minimum 
expectations as set out in the Family Hubs and Start for Life local authority guide by 
March 2025. This guide is accessible at: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/family-hubs-and-start-for-life-
programme-local-authority-guide. 

  Free Schools: Darlington 

Peter Gibson:        

 [16918] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what progress her Department has made on 
appointing a provider for the new 48 place Autism Spectrum Disorder special free school 
in Darlington. 

David Johnston: 
The application process for potential providers to operate Darlington’s new special 
free school has been completed. Ministers are considering the outcome before 
confirming the successful applicant. 

  Herefordshire Children's Services: Standards 

Sir Bill Wiggin:        

 [16668] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether she plans to provide further 
assistance to Herefordshire Children’s Services. 

Sir Bill Wiggin:        

 [16669] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent assessment she has made of 
the adequacy of the performance of Herefordshire Children's Services relative to average 
national standards. 

Sir Bill Wiggin:        

 [16670] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what steps she plans to take to help improve 
the standard of service provided by Herefordshire Children's Services. 

David Johnston: 
In its inspection report, published 21 September 2022, Ofsted judged the overall 
effectiveness of Herefordshire Council’s children’s services to be inadequate. 

There have been regular subsequent visits by Ofsted over the past 18 months, as 
well as two reports on the service by the Children’s Services Commissioner 
appointed following the inspection. All acknowledge progress, but challenge the pace 
at which change is being achieved. 

The department is mounting a significant intervention to improve services, deploying 
the Commissioner and an improvement adviser to provide challenge and support, 
and brokering a comprehensive two-year improvement partnership with a stronger 
local authority, Leeds City Council. 

Most recently the department has committed £300,000 this year and next to 
strengthen the delivery of early help arrangements so that a greater number of 
children and families can access help at an earlier stage and receive a more tailored 
response to that need. 

  Pre-school Education: Finance 

Alistair Strathern:        

 [15511] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether she has had discussions with the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer on the steps they are taking to support the new Early Years 
Funding programme to ensure nurseries are viable. 

Alistair Strathern:        

 [15512] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether she has had discussions with the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer on the impact of the new Early Years Funding programme 
on the viability of providers where the Government’s payments do not match the 
nurseries current fees. 

David Johnston: 
There were 15,100 childcare places in 2023 than the previous year, with 12,900 paid 
staff added to the same period according to 2023’s Childcare and Early Years 
Provider Survey. 

To support providers to expand their provision further, the department is investing 
over £400 million of additional funding to uplift the hourly rate for the entitlements 
next year. This investment consists of £67 million new funding to reflect the latest 
National Living Wage increase, an additional £57 million to support providers in 
respect of teachers’ pay and pensions, and the £288 million for the existing 
entitlements in 2024/25 announced in the Spring Budget in March 2023. It also builds 
on the £204 million of additional investment to increase funding rates this year. 

The department will also be providing over £4.1 billion by the 2027/28 financial year 
to fund 30 hours of free childcare per week (38 weeks per year) for working parents 
with children aged 9 months and above in England, from the term after they reach the 
relevant age (£1.7 billion in 2024/25, £3.3 billion in 2025/26, £4.1 billion in 2026/27, 
and £4.1 billion in 2027/28). Additionally, hundreds of thousands of children aged 3 
and 4 are registered for a 30-hour place, saving eligible working parents up to £6,900 
per child per year, helping even more working parents and making a real difference to 
the lives of those families. 

Providers are expanding placements across the country and the department is 
supporting providers to deliver each stage of the entitlement expansion rollout 
through increases to the rate of pay, the department’s national recruitment campaign 
and establishing more qualification routes into the sector. 

  Schools: Buildings 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18143] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the Greater London region. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18144] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the South East. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18145] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the South West. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18146] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the West Midlands. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18147] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the North West. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18148] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the North East. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18149] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the East Midlands. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18150] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in the East. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18151] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
total cost to the public purse of (a) repairing, (b) refurbishing and (c) rebuilding school 
buildings in Yorkshire and the Humber. 

Damian Hinds: 
Well-maintained, safe school buildings are a priority for the department to support a 
high-quality education for all children. The department has allocated over £15 billion 
since 2015 for keeping schools safe and operational, including £1.8 billion in the 
2023/24 financial year. In addition, the School Rebuilding Programme is transforming 
poor condition buildings at over 500 schools. 

It is the responsibility of those who run schools, such as academy trusts, local 
authorities and voluntary-aided school bodies, to manage the safety and 
maintenance of their schools based on local knowledge of their estates. They decide 
how to use annual funding provided, or when to apply to central programmes. Where 
there are serious issues with buildings that cannot be managed independently, the 
department provides additional support on a case-by-case basis. 

This government introduced the Condition Data Collection (CDC), the first ever 
comprehensive survey of the school estate and one of the largest data collection 
programmes of its kind in Europe. The department’s evidence-led approach, following 
the James Review of Capital in 2011, has enabled the department to use consistent 
data on the condition of the school estate to inform capital allocations and funding 
policy. This means that the department targets more funding to where it is needed 
most, with schools in relatively poorer condition attracting more funding for their 
responsible body. 

Almost all government funded schools in England were visited as part of the 
Condition Data Collection 1 (CDC1) programme between 2017 and 2019. Surveyors 
and engineers assessed the condition of multiple components of the schools' 
buildings and land within twelve primary building elements using an A-D rating. Key 
findings, including regional breakdowns, from the CDC1 can be found in the report, 
‘Condition of School Buildings Survey – Key Findings’, which is available at: 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/60af7cbbe90e071b54214c82/Conditio
n_of_School_Buildings_Survey_CDC1_-_key_findings_report.pdf. 

Significant capital investment has been provided since the CDC1 was carried out, 
and Condition Data Collection 2 (CDC2) is now in progress to provide updated 
information and will be completed by 2026. Early indications from the CDC2 data 
collection to date, and feedback from responsible bodies, showed that in almost 
every case where a D grade component was identified in the CDC1 report, it has 
since been addressed. 

The list of schools that have been awarded a place on the School Rebuilding 
Programme can be found here: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/school-
rebuilding-programme-schools-in-the-programme. 

Funding for capital programmes up to the 2024/25 financial year comes from the 
department’s overall £19 billion capital budget set at the 2021 Spending Review. 
Capital budgets beyond 2024/25 will be determined through a Spending Review, in 
the normal way. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18155] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, with reference to paragraph 17 of the NAO 
report on the Condition of school buildings, HC 1516, published on 28 June 2023, what 
estimate she has made of the number of children studying in schools where the 
responsible body or her Department believes that major repair works are required in each 
of the next five years. 

Damian Hinds: 
It is the responsibility of those who run schools, such as academy trusts, local 
authorities and voluntary-aided school bodies, to manage the safety and 
maintenance of their schools based on local knowledge of their estates. They decide 
how to use annual funding provided, or when to apply to central programmes. The 
department has allocated over £15 billion since 2015 to support responsible bodies 
and schools, including £1.8 billion in 2023/24. Where there are serious issues with 
buildings that cannot be managed independently, the department provides additional 
support on a case-by-case basis. 

Consequently, the department does not hold an estimate of pupil numbers in schools 
that may need major works over the next five years, nor similar data from responsible 
bodies. 

This government introduced the Condition Data Collection (CDC), the first ever 
comprehensive survey of the school estate and one of the largest data collection 
programmes of its kind in Europe. A successor programme, CDC2, is underway and 
will be complete by 2026. Thanks to its evidence led approach, following the James 
Review of Capital in 2011, this government has been able to allocate capital funding 
based on consistent data on condition need. 

The National Audit Office, in their report on school buildings in June 2023, provided 
an estimated number of pupils that were in ‘a school that the responsible body or the 
Department for Education believes needs major rebuilding or refurbishment’. The 
figure is often misinterpreted as it is based on the total number of pupils in schools 
nominated to the School Rebuilding Programme (SRP) in 2022 by responsible 
bodies, and includes schools that were already selected to be rebuilt in the SRP. 
Nominations to SRP give an indication of refurbishment need, but as responsible 
bodies are self-nominated, this is subjective. The figure is also for all pupils in these 
schools, whereas buildings in poor condition are often only a part of each estate. 

Unlike programmes prior to 2010, the SRP and the Priority School Building 
Programme have been prioritised on condition need. The department robustly 
evaluated the nominations to the SRP and selected schools with the greatest need. 
This included all schools with evidence of exceptional need, such as structural 
issues, verified by the department against the programme criteria. 

The SRP now has over 500 projects. The methodology for prioritising schools and all 
schools included in the programme are published on GOV.UK: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/school-rebuilding-programme-schools-
in-the-programme. 

More broadly, the CDC2 survey is already demonstrating the government’s evidence 
led approach is working. Early indications from the CDC2 data collection to date, and 
feedback from responsible bodies, shows that in almost every case where a D grade 
component was identified in the CDC1 report, it has since been addressed. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18157] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent estimate she has made of the 
number of schools with (a) Laingspan and (b) Integrid system builds. 

Damian Hinds: 
The department has prioritised Laingspan and Intergrid for replacement and included 
all identified school buildings of these types that are still in service in the School 
Rebuilding Programme. 

The department is aware of 7 schools with Laingspan buildings and 18 schools with 
Intergrid buildings. Of these 24 schools (1 school has both a Laingspan and an 
Integrid block), 23 have been included in the School Rebuilding Programme. The 
remaining school was not included in the School Rebuilding Programme as the 
academy trust was taking its Intergrid block out of use. 

  Schools: Finance 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18152] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what estimate she has made of the funding 
required to maintain the school estate. 

Damian Hinds: 
Well-maintained, safe school buildings are a priority for the department in order to 
ensure that they support a high-quality education for all children. The department has 
allocated over £15 billion since 2015 for keeping schools safe and operational, 
including £1.8 billion in 2023/24. In addition, the school rebuilding programme is 
transforming poor condition buildings at over 500 schools. 

It is the responsibility of those who run schools, such as academy trusts, local 
authorities and voluntary-aided school bodies, to manage the safety and 
maintenance of their schools based on local knowledge of their estates. They decide 
how to use annual funding provided, or when to apply to central programmes. Where 
there are serious issues with buildings that cannot be managed independently the 
department provides additional support on a case by case basis. 

This government introduced the Condition Data Collection (CDC), the first ever 
comprehensive survey of the school estate and one of the largest data collection 
programmes of its kind in Europe. Thanks to our evidence led approach, following the 
James Review of Capital in 2011, this government has been able to allocate capital 
funding based on consistent data on condition need. Almost all government funded 
schools in England were visited as part of the CDC programme between 2017 and 
2019. Key findings from the CDC programme can be found here: 

https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/60af7cbbe90e071b54214c82/Conditio
n_of_School_Buildings_Survey_CDC1_-_key_findings_report.pdf. 

This reported a total modelled remediation cost of £11.4 billion to repair or replace 
building components rated less than good (Grade A), which included elements which 
were rated as satisfactory. 

Significant capital investment has been provided since the CDC was carried out. 
Condition Data Collection 2 (CDC2) started in 2021 and will complete in 2026. It will 
provide the department with an improved and up to date evidence base on building 
condition to inform future capital policy and programmes. Early indications from our 
CDC2 data collection to date, and feedback from responsible bodies, showed that in 
almost every case where a D grade component was identified in the CDC1 report, it 
has since been addressed. 

Funding for capital programmes up to 2024/25 comes from the department’s overall 
£19 billion capital budget set at the 2021 Spending Review. Capital budgets beyond 
2024/25 will be determined through a Spending Review, in the normal way. 

  Schools: Surveys 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18160] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what comparative assessment she has 
made of the effectiveness of information collected from schools which have undergone 
both condition data collection (a) one and (b) two exercise surveys. 

Catherine McKinnell:        

 [18161] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether she has made an estimate of the 
number of schools in which construction types were misidentified during condition data 
collection 1 surveys. 

Damian Hinds: 
Well-maintained, safe school buildings are a priority for the department to support a 
high-quality education for all children. The department has allocated over £15 billion 
since 2015 for keeping schools safe and operational, including £1.8 billion in the 
2023/24 financial year. In addition, the School Rebuilding Programme is transforming 
poor condition buildings at over 500 schools. 

It is the responsibility of those who run schools, such as academy trusts, local 
authorities and voluntary-aided school bodies, to manage the safety and 
maintenance of their schools based on local knowledge of their estates. 

This government introduced the Condition Data Collection (CDC), the first ever 
comprehensive survey of the school estate and one of the largest data collection 
programmes of its kind in Europe. Previous administrations took no action to 
understand the condition of the school estate. Running from 2017 to 2019, the survey 
allowed the department to understand the condition of the school estate over a 
sustained period, and informed capital funding and programmes by providing 

information on the condition of all 22,000 government funded school buildings and 
260 further education colleges in England. 

CDC2 started in 2021 and will complete in 2026. Any comparative assessment 
between both programmes will be undertaken upon the completion of CDC2 in 2026. 
The department has taken steps to ensure that the condition data collected is 
consistent and accurate across the school and further education college estate. Early 
indications from the CDC2 programme suggest that, in almost every case where a 
category D was identified in CDC1, it has since been addressed. 

CDC visits are carried out by professionally trained building surveyors and 
mechanical engineers, who follow a specific methodology. Data goes through a 
robust quality assurance process, and schools are given the opportunity to feedback 
and comment on their report. 

The department is not aware of any systemic misidentification of construction types in 
CDC1. 

  Special Educational Needs 

Rachael Maskell:        

 [15946] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what recent discussions she has had with 
local authorities on allocating school places to children with SEND based on the level of 
support available. 

David Johnston: 
The statutory duty to provide sufficient school places, including for pupils with special 
educational needs and disabilities (SEND), sits with local authorities. The department 
allocates funding to support local authorities to meet this duty and has allocated over 
£1.5 billion of High Needs Provision Capital Allocations (HNPCA) for the 2022/23 and 
2023/24 financial years. 

This funding can be used to deliver new places in mainstream and special schools, 
as well as other specialist settings, and to improve the suitability and accessibility of 
existing buildings, local authorities can spend the funding across the 0-25 age range, 
including in special post-16 institutions or other further education settings. The need 
for investment across this age range will differ between different local authorities, 
dependent on local circumstances, and it is therefore for local authorities to 
determine how to best prioritise their available funding to address their local priorities. 

Through our reforms, we want to ensure that placements for children and young 
people with SEND are sufficient to meet need, allowing them to access the right 
support, in the right setting, at the right time. 

In the SEND and alternative provision (AP) Improvement Plan the department set out 
proposals to support parents and carers, or young people from the age of 16, to 
express an informed preference for a suitable placement, by requiring local 
authorities to provide a tailored list of settings that are appropriate to meet a child or 
young person’s needs. Tailored lists are about illustrating choice for parents and 

young people by providing detailed, relevant information about suitable placements. 
We are testing an advisory version of the tailored list proposal in participating local 
authorities through the Change Programme, to gain feedback on the best way to 
support families as they choose a placement. 

In addition, we will establish new local SEND and AP partnerships which will bring 
together delivery partners across local systems to strategically plan and commission 
support for children and young people with SEND and in AP. The partnerships will be 
expected to co-produce a Local Area Inclusion Plan based on robust evidence that 
will explain how the needs of children and young people in the area will be met. 

Rachael Maskell:        

 [16712] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, whether she is taking steps to ensure that 
children with SEND who have difficulties with the school environment receive a full 
education. 

David Johnston: 
Schools, further education colleges, sixth form colleges and 16-19 academies are 
required to identify and address the special educational needs (SEN) of the pupils 
they support and (in mainstream settings) to use their best endeavours to make sure 
that a child or young person who has SEN gets the support they need. 

The right of children with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) to an 
education is the same as that for any other pupil. It is important for schools to 
acknowledge the barriers to attendance are wide and complex, especially for pupils 
with SEND. 

The department’s expectation for a ‘support approach’ is set out in the working 
together to improve school attendance guidance which can be accessed here: 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachm
ent_data/file/1099677/Working_together_to_improve_school_attendance.pdf. This 
support may include reasonable adjustments for pupils with disabilities or support for 
pupils for whom mental health issues are affecting their attendance. The guidance 
states that schools should be mindful of the barriers these pupils face and put 
additional support in place where necessary to help them access their full-time 
education. This includes establishing strategies for removing in-school barriers to 
attendance as well as ensuring joined-up pastoral care is in place with the local 
authority and other partners. More information on reasonable adjustments can be 
found here: https://educationhub.blog.gov.uk/2023/04/10/what-are-reasonable-
adjustments-and-how-do-they-help-disabled-pupils-at-school/. More information on 
mental health issues affecting pupils attendance can be found here: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/mental-health-issues-affecting-a-pupils-
attendance-guidance-for-schools. 

  Special Educational Needs: Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole 

Mr Tobias Ellwood:        

 [15418] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what steps her Department is taking to 
support Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole Council to reduce the time taken to 
complete education, health and care plans. 

David Johnston: 
Ofsted and the Care Quality Commission conducted a joint inspection of the local 
area of Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole in June 2021 and identified eight areas 
of significant weaknesses. Following this inspection, the Local Area Partnership were 
required to produce a Written Statement of Action. 

Where local authorities are failing to deliver consistent outcomes for children and 
young people with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND), the department 
works closely with them using a range of improvement programmes and SEND 
specialist advisors to address weaknesses. 

The department has appointed a SEND specialist advisor to work closely with the 
Council and has approved a robust package of sector led improvement support from 
Bedford Borough Council. Amongst a wide range of support, the specialist advisor 
and Bedford Borough Council are supporting the Council with meeting the 20 week 
timescales within the Education, Health and Care (EHC) plan process and improving 
the quality of EHC plans being produced. 

Alongside this support, the department has issued the Council with a statutory 
direction for SEND services on 26 February 2024. This is due to the inadequate 
progress the Council has made following the Written Statement of Action Plan since 
their local area SEND inspection in June 2021. In line with the direction, the 
department will be working closely with the local area to ensure they are supported in 
addressing issues and driving improvements to services. 

  Special Educational Needs: Location 

Helen Hayes:        

 [17741] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, with reference to the Spring Budget 2024, 
HC 560, where the 15 new special schools will be located. 

David Johnston: 
The Spring Budget confirmed plans for 15 additional special free schools. An 
announcement on the location of these schools will be made by May 2024. 

The department received a large number of high-quality applications from local 
authorities through the most recent special free schools application round. In March 
2023, the department approved 33 new special free schools. 

The Spring Budget announcement means that the department can now go further, by 
considering more high-quality applications that were not able to be approved at the 
time. Therefore, the department does not currently plan to invite new local authority 
applications for this wave. 

  Students: Transgender People 

Darren Jones:        

 [19429] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, what steps her Department has taken to 
consult (a) transgender students, (b) the families of transgender students and (c) 
organisations that represent the views of transgender people on the draft guidance 
entitled Guidance for Schools and Colleges: Gender Questioning Children, published on 
19 December 2023. 

Damian Hinds: 
From the 19 December 2023 to the 12 March 2024, the department carried out a full 
public consultation on the draft guidance for schools and colleges on gender 
questioning children. Any member of the public could respond and provide their 
views. 

  Teachers: Qualifications 

Naz Shah:        

 [19081] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Education, with reference to the Answer of 10 May 2023 
to Question 182611 on Teachers: Qualifications, if she will take steps to make the 
Education Accreditation Scheme available to online education providers for adult 
learners. 

Robert Halfon: 
The Online Education Accreditation Scheme (OEAS) was launched by the 
department in April 2023. The objective of the scheme is to bring regulatory oversight 
to an unregulated part of the education sector. The scheme is not designed to cover 
all forms of online education but to focus where the need for quality assurance is 
most pronounced, which is to pupils of compulsory school age. The OEAS is only 
open to applications from those providers offering full-time education online to pupils 
of compulsory school age. The government has no plans to expand the scheme to 
online education providers for adults. 

  ENERGY SECURITY AND NET ZERO 

  Alternative Fuels: Heating 

Steve Double:        

 [18735] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, with reference to section 
159 of the Energy Act 2023, whether she plans to consult on regulations for renewable 
liquid heating fuel. 

Amanda Solloway: 
The Government has begun developing a consultation on the role of renewable liquid 
fuels in heat and intends to issue the consultation by September this year, in line with 
commitments made by ministers during Parliamentary debates on the Energy Act. 

  Oil: Refineries 

Kenny MacAskill:        

 [19478] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, pursuant to the Answer 
of 19 March 2024 to Question 17958 on Oil: Refineries, what information her Department 
holds on the (a) value and (b) volume of oil produced at each refinery. 

Andrew Bowie: 
The Department collects commercially sensitive data on the volume of oil produced 
by each refinery in order to produce aggregate data on the UK’s refinery output. The 
Department cannot release refinery level data on production volumes due to the 
commercial nature of these data. The Department does not collect data on the value 
of each refinery’s output, but this will be reflected in the owner’s annual accounts filed 
at Companies House. 

  Oldbury Power Station and Wylfa Power Station: Land 

Alan Brown:        

 [19397] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, pursuant to the Answer 
of 19 March 2024 to Question 18508 on Oldbury Power Station and Wylfa Power Station: 
Land, who undertook the independent valuation; and whether the commercial value of 
land adjacent to decommissioned reactors was taken into account as part of that 
valuation. 

Andrew Bowie: 
Independent valuations of the land were conducted by Knight Frank. The inherent 
characteristics of the land as well as the previous development work which make the 
land suitable for consideration for nuclear development informed the valuation of the 
sites. 

  Renewable energy: Community Development 

Angus Brendan MacNeil:        

 [19016] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, with reference to the oral 
contribution of the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net 
Zero during the debate on Consideration of Lords message on the Energy Bill [Lords] of 
18 October 2023, Official Report, column 352, what her planned timetable is to consult on 
the barriers to community energy schemes. 

Graham Stuart: 
We have been codesigning the consultation on the barriers to community energy 
schemes via the Community Energy Contact Group. We intend to publish the 
consultation as soon as possible. 

  Renewable Energy: Feed-in Tariffs 

Naz Shah:        

 [19082] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, what steps her 
Department is taking to investigate the installation of (a) biomass boilers and (b) solar 
panels by (i) A Shade Greener and (ii) other commercial rent-a-roof companies. 

Andrew Bowie: 
I refer the Hon. Member to the answer I gave to the Hon Member for Islwyn (Chris 
Evans) on 18 March to question UIN 18120. 

  Warm Home Discount Scheme 

Kenny MacAskill:        

 [19477] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, pursuant to the Answer 
of 18 March 2024 to Question 17957 on Warm Home Discount Scheme, what steps she 
is able to take to ensure that the regional electricity areas with the highest levels of fuel 
poverty are adequately financially supported, in the context of no data being collated 
centrally on the number of households receiving Warm Home Discounts by regional 
electricity area. 

Amanda Solloway: 
The Warm Home Discount scheme is targeted to low-income households at risk of 
fuel poverty, providing a £150 rebate to eligible households. In England and Wales, 
the government sets the eligibility criteria and identifies households through data 
matching. In Scotland, the government identifies eligible low-income pensioners 
through data matching, meanwhile other low-income households in Scotland must 
apply to their energy supplier who can set their own criteria, subject to approval by 
Ofgem. 

The government published official statistics for winter 2022/23 last year which 
showed, that across England, the distribution of rebates across regions is roughly 
consistent with the fuel poverty statistics for rates of fuel poverty. The government 
does not produce equivalent statistics for Scotland as fuel poverty is devolved and 
measured differently. 

  Wind Power: Manufacturing Industries 

Angus Brendan MacNeil:        

 [19017] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, whether investment to 
support the manufacture of wind turbine jackets will be included in the Green Industries 
Growth Accelerator. 

Graham Stuart: 
The Government has committed £1.1 billion to the Green Industries Growth 
Accelerator to support the expansion of domestic green manufacturing capacity and 
strengthen clean energy supply chains. At Spring Budget, we announced provisional 
allocations of up to £390 million for offshore wind and networks, up to £390 million for 

carbon capture, utilisation and storage and hydrogen and up to £300m to support 
domestic production of high-assay low-enriched uranium (HALEU) for nuclear fuel. 

The Government is conducting engagement with industry on the design of the 
Accelerator and more detail on eligibility and how to apply for funding will be shared 
in due course. 

  ENVIRONMENT, FOOD AND RURAL AFFAIRS 

  Animals (Low-Welfare Activities Abroad) Act 2023 

Mr Virendra Sharma:        

 [19304] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what progress his 
Department has made on producing a draft list of proscribed activities for application 
under the Animals (Low-Welfare Activities Abroad) Act 2023. 

Mr Virendra Sharma:        

 [19305] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what his 
Department's timescale is for publishing a public consultation on potential proscribed 
activities in relation to the Animals (Low-Welfare Activities Abroad) Act 2023. 

Mark Spencer: 
The Animals (Low-Welfare Activities Abroad) Act 2023 provides a framework for the 
introduction of future bans on the advertising and offering for sale, in England and 
Northern Ireland, of low-welfare animal activities abroad. 

Future decisions on which specific animal activities will fall in scope of the 
advertising ban will be evidence-based and subject to Parliamentary scrutiny. 
Sufficient, compelling evidence will be required to demonstrate why any specific 
advertising ban is needed. 

This Government continues to make animal welfare a priority and we are currently 
exploring a number of options to ensure progress as soon as is practicable . 

  Climate Change: Investment 

Caroline Lucas:        

 [19037] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what assessment 
he has made of the implications for his policies of the Climate Change Committee’s report 
entitled Investment for a well-adapted UK, published on 1 February 2023. 

Rebecca Pow: 
The Government’s third National Adaptation Programme (NAP3) was published in 
July 2023 and sets out how we are investing billions in projects to improve the UK’s 
climate resilience. This includes £5.2bn of investment over six years in flood and 
coastal erosion schemes in England, and £2.4bn per annum until the end of this 
current Parliament on the Farming and Countryside Programme which supports and 
helps to drive practices that embed greater climate adaptation in England's 

agriculture. Where government has concerns about the level of investment in 
resilience we have acted swiftly. For example, through the recent Plan for Water we 
have accelerated £2.2bn of investment in measures to secure a resilient, clean and 
plentiful supply of water now and in the future. 

The Government has also committed to support the flow of private finance into 
adaptation through the government’s 2023 Green Finance Strategy ‘ Mobilising 
Green Investment’. This includes working with private sector partners to improve the 
approach to climate resilience assessment and disclosure, and supporting private 
and public collaboration to overcome barriers to investment and assist in the 
functioning of new markets. 

  Dogs: Animal Welfare 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [18249] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, whether his 
Department is taking steps to support animal welfare organisations in tackling (a) ear 
cropping and (b) puppy smuggling. 

Mark Spencer: 
Under the Animal Welfare Act 2006, it is an offence in England and Wales to carry 
out a non-exempted mutilation, including the cropping of a dog’s ears. The Animal 
Welfare (Sentencing) Act 2021 creates tougher penalties for anyone convicted of 
such an offence face, either being sent to prison for up to five years, or receiving an 
unlimited fine, or both. 

Defra supports the work of the Pet Advertising Advisory Group (PAAG) which 
includes in its membership some of the country’s key animal welfare organisations. 
To ensure that advertisements for pets are legal and ethical, PAAG has developed a 
set of advertising standards which several of the UK’s largest classified websites 
have agreed to meet. The standards prohibit engaged websites from hosting adverts 
for dogs whose ears have been cropped. 

Defra regularly engages with stakeholders, including veterinary and animal welfare 
professionals, on a range of animal welfare issues, including the illegal smuggling of 
pets into the UK. 

The Government supports the Private Members’ Bill, Animal Welfare (Import of Dogs, 
Cats and Ferrets) Bill, introduced by the hon. Member for North Devon on restricting 
the importation and non-commercial movement of pets. The Bill will contain powers 
that will enable future regulations for commercial and non-commercial movements of 
pets into the UK including prohibiting the import of dogs with cropped ears. 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [18250] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what steps he is 
taking with local authorities to enhance enforcement against (a) puppy smuggling and (b) 
the sale of dogs with cropped ears. 

Mark Spencer: 
Under the Animal Welfare Act 2006, it is an offence in England and Wales to carry 
out a non-exempted mutilation, including the cropping of a dog’s ears. The Animal 
Welfare (Sentencing) Act 2021 creates tougher penalties for anyone convicted of 
such an offence face, either being sent to prison for up to five years, or receiving an 
unlimited fine, or both. 

The Government supports the Private Members’ Bill, Animal Welfare (Import of Dogs, 
Cats and Ferrets) Bill, introduced by the hon. Member for North Devon on restricting 
the importation and non-commercial movement of pets. The Bill will contain powers 
that will enable future regulations for commercial and non-commercial movements of 
pets into the United Kingdom including prohibiting the import of dogs with cropped 
ears. 

Defra regularly engages with stakeholders, including local authorities, on a range of 
animal welfare issues, including the smuggling of pets into the UK and the cropping 
of dogs’ ears. 

  Dogs: Import Controls 

Dame Diana Johnson:        

 [18081] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what steps his 
Department has taken help tackle the import of dogs with cropped ears since 1 January 
2024. 

Mark Spencer: 
Under the Animal Welfare Act 2006, it is already an offence in England and Wales to 
carry out a non-exempted mutilation, including the cropping of a dog’s ears or the 
docking of their tails. The Animal Welfare (Sentencing) Act 2021 creates tougher 
penalties for anyone convicted of such an offence face, either being sent to prison for 
up to five years, or receiving an unlimited fine, or both. 

The Government supports the Private Members’ Bill, Animal Welfare (Import of Dogs, 
Cats and Ferrets) Bill, introduced by the hon. Member for North Devon on restricting 
the importation and non-commercial movement of pets. The Bill will contain powers 
that will enable future regulations for commercial and non-commercial movements of 
pets into the United Kingdom including prohibiting the import of dogs with cropped 
ears. 

  Dogs: Public Places 

Steve McCabe:        

 [18977] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, whether he has 
made an assessment of the potential merits of legislating to compel dogs to be put on 
leads in public places. 

Mark Spencer: 
There is a balance to be struck between protecting the wider public and their animals 
from dog attacks, the freedom people enjoy when walking their dogs, and the welfare 

of those dogs including the freedom to exhibit normal behaviours. We currently have 
no plans to legislate to compel dogs to be on leads in public places. 

The Code of Practice for the Welfare of Dogs already states that it is best practice to 
keep dogs on leads around other animals. It is also an offence under the Road Traffic 
Act 1988 to allow a dog to be on a designated road unless it is on a lead. 

Under the Anti-Social Behaviour Crime and Policing Act 2014, enforcement 
authorities have powers to make Public Space Protection Orders (PSPOs) insisting 
dogs are kept on leads in certain areas. Where a dog has been involved in anti-social 
behaviour, enforcement authorities can also issue community protection notices 
which could require a dog to be kept on a lead in public. 

  Dogs: Smuggling 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [18248] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what steps his 
Department is taking to enforce (a) legislative provisions and (b) border controls relating 
to puppy smuggling. 

Mark Spencer: 
The Government supports the Private Members’ Bill, Animal Welfare (Import of Dogs, 
Cats and Ferrets) Bill, introduced by the hon. Member for North Devon on restricting 
the importation and non-commercial movement of pets. The Bill will contain powers 
that will enable future regulations for commercial and non-commercial movements of 
pets into the United Kingdom including prohibiting the import of dogs with cropped 
ears. 

We operate one of the most rigorous and robust pet travel checking regimes in 
Europe. The Animal and Plant Health Agency works collaboratively with Border Force 
and other operational partners at ports, airports and inland, sharing intelligence to 
enforce the pet travel rules, disrupt illegal imports, safeguard the welfare of animals 
and seize non-compliant animals. 

  Fish: Consumption 

Derek Thomas:        

 [17749] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what steps he is 
taking to encourage (a) schools, (b) prisons and (c) hospitals to serve British-caught fish. 

Mark Spencer: 
The Government has consulted on changes to the Government Buying Standards for 
Food and Catering Services (GBSF), including increasing the sourcing of local and 
sustainable food. The consultation sought views on sourcing, where possible, a 
diverse range of seasonally available seafood species from locally caught or 
produced sources. As the Government response to the consultation has not yet been 
published, it is too soon to pre-empt any specific findings. 

We have also now appointed an independent advisor to support the Government’s 
ongoing work to improve food procurement in the public sector and make the system 
more accessible to small- and medium-sized businesses and, subject to domestic 
and international legal obligations, explore the benefits of and steps to getting more 
local-caught fish into schools, prisons and hospitals. 

  Fisheries: Thailand 

Dr Matthew Offord:        

 [19048] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what estimate his 
Department has made of the value of fisheries stocks imported from Thailand in each of 
the last five years. 

Mark Spencer: 
The nominal value of seafood goods, mainly shrimps & prawns, and skipjack tuna, 
imported from Thailand was £64m in 2019, £50m in 2020, £40m in 2021, £37m in 
2022 and £36m last year. 

  Food: Waste 

Marsha De Cordova:        

 [19458] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, whether his 
Department has made an assessment of the potential (a) economic and (b) 
environmental impact of mandatory food waste reporting in Battersea. 

Robbie Moore: 
The 2022 public consultation on improved food waste reporting by large food 
businesses in England included an Impact Assessment which assessed the 
economic and environmental impacts of the of the voluntary and mandatory 
approaches to reporting. These assessments were made at the national level. No 
regional or local assessments have been made. 

  Marine Environment: Biodiversity 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [19148] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what assessment 
he has made of the impact of high ocean temperatures on marine biodiversity in UK 
waters. 

Rebecca Pow: 
Through the Marine Climate Change Impacts Partnership, we are improving our 
understanding of the impact of climate change, including on sea temperature and 
marine biodiversity. Evidence suggests that increasing sea temperature is associated 
with a number of possible impacts on marine biodiversity, such as changes in the 
range, distribution and abundance of marine species, impacts on growth rates and 
size, and altered foodwebs due to the location of primary production and prey 
availability. 

In the UK we are committed to ensuring that climate change adaptation, resilience 
and mitigation are fully considered and integrated in our marine and fisheries policies. 
The third National Adaptation Programme (NAP3) was published on 17 July 2023 
and showcases our plans to adapt to and mitigate the risks of a warming climate on 
the marine environment, including to protect, restore and create blue carbon habitats 
and manage the risks and opportunities to marine species, habitats, and fisheries. 

  Members: Correspondence 

Bill Esterson:        

 [17352] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, when he plans to 
respond to the correspondence of 8 September 2023 from the constituent of the hon. 
Member for Sefton Central on animal testing. 

Mark Spencer: 
A reply was sent to the hon. Member on 8 March 2024 advising that the issues raised 
in his correspondence are a matter for the Department for Science, Innovation and 
Technology. I apologise for the delay in responding. 

  Nature for Climate Fund: Saltmarshes 

Kerry McCarthy:        

 [17843] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, if he will make an 
assessment of the potential merits of including a grant scheme for saltmarshes in the 
Nature for Climate Fund. 

Rebecca Pow: 
The UK recognises the important role that saltmarsh can play in climate change 
mitigation, adaptation and resilience. Saltmarsh habitats are also richly biodiverse, 
benefit fish stocks and provide a crucial buffer from coastal flooding. 

Building on this recognition, the UK Government is supporting blue carbon restoration 
efforts through various initiatives, for example by providing £640,000 funding for 
domestic blue carbon habitat restoration. 

This includes funds to support the development of a Saltmarsh Code to help drive 
investment flows from the private sector towards nature. This funding has also 
increased the capacity of the Restoring Meadow, Marsh and Reef initiative 
(ReMeMaRe), helping to create a pipeline of restoration projects in saltmarsh and 
other key estuarine and coastal habitats. 

Defra has set up the UK Blue Carbon Evidence Partnership in partnership with the 
Devolved Administrations to address evidence gaps that currently prevent the 
inclusion of saltmarsh habitats in the UK Greenhouse Gas Inventory (GHGI). 
Inclusion of saltmarsh in the GHGI and the development of a Saltmarsh Code will 
allow blue carbon to be marketed and traded as a carbon offset, leveraging private 
investment into these vital natural carbon stores. 

In addition, funding has been made available for saltmarsh restoration through the 
Landscape Recovery and Countryside Stewardship Environmental Land 
Management schemes. In the ELMS Countryside Stewardship scheme approximately 
5,000 hectares of saltmarsh is being maintained or restored to a good condition. 

The £750m of Nature for Climate funding is due to end in March 2025 and the 
Programme will be delivering against its agreed Business Case in that time. The 
Fund’s impact is being evaluated and any future funding for Trees, Peat and 
Saltmarshes will be a matter for the next Spending Review. We are continuing to 
explore further means of supporting saltmarsh restoration. 

  Tree Planting: Lincolnshire 

Sir John Hayes:        

 [19254] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, how many trees 
have been planted on behalf of his Department in (a) South Holland District, (b) South 
Kesteven District and (c) Lincolnshire since 2020. 

Rebecca Pow: 
We do not collect data on tree planting by constituency. Our England Trees Action 
Plan has kickstarted tree planting across England with over4 million trees planted in 
2023 and 15 million trees planted since 2020. 

  Trees: Diseases 

Steve Reed:        

 [19374] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, what estimate he 
has made of the number of trees that have died in each year since 2010. 

Rebecca Pow: 
We do not hold data on the number of trees which have died each year since 2010. 
We recognise trees can only help mitigate the impact of a changing climate if they are 
resilient to those challenges themselves, and to pests and diseases. Landowners and 
woodland managers should actively manage, increase diversity and maintain tree 
health so they are fit for the future, including new trees planted under our grant 
schemes. Our main grant schemes provide 15 years maintenance payments to give 
these trees the best chance to thrive. 

Individual landowners are legally responsible for the care and management of trees 
on their land. Defra and the Forestry Commission provide guidance and grants, to 
help landowners manage the impacts of priority tree pests and pathogens such as 
ash dieback and oak processionary moth. Last year we published a new Plant 
Biosecurity Strategy for Great Britain (2023 to 2028) which sets out an ambitious plan 
of action for continuing to drive up biosecurity standards and increase the protection 
for our trees. 

  FOREIGN, COMMONWEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE 

  Arms Trade: Export Controls 

Brendan O'Hara:        

 [19381] 

To ask the Minister of State, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, what 
assessment he has made of the potential merits of creating a replacement to the 
Committee on Arms Export Controls. 

Leo Docherty: 
Parliamentary scrutiny is a matter for the House. In January 2024, the Business and 
Trade Committee (BTC) became the Parliamentary scrutiny committee with oversight 
of arms export controls, a role formerly carried out by the Committees on Arms 
Exports Controls (CAEC). The Government is committed to keeping the BTC updated 
on export controls. 

  Mali: Private Military and Security Companies 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [18251] 

To ask the Minister of State, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, what 
discussions he has had at international conferences with his counterparts on tackling the 
influence of private military security companies in Mali; and whether he has made an 
assessment of the potential impact of such companies on peace negotiations. 

Mr Andrew Mitchell: 
The UK consistently makes clear that groups such as the Russian proxy Wagner 
Group, with its proven track record of human rights abuses, exacerbate instability in 
fragile contexts. Whilst Private Military Companies can provide valuable security 
assurances, Russian Proxies have a destabilising influence in Mali where they focus 
on military action only and have never had a role, or any interest, in supporting 
meaningful peace negotiations. Long-term solutions to foster a sustainable and 
peaceful Mali require meaningful, inclusive dialogue. The UK supports this by 
coordinating with likeminded states and international organisations to address the 
drivers of instability. We draw on a range of available levers, including through its 
humanitarian, development and conflict resolution programmes. 

  Nigeria: Abduction 

Ruth Jones:        

 [18802] 

To ask the Minister of State, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, what 
steps his Department is taking to help tackle the kidnappings of schoolchildren in Nigeria. 

Mr Andrew Mitchell: 
The UK Government is monitoring the recent kidnappings of schoolchildren in Nigeria 
and condemns this crime. At the latest UK-Nigeria Security and Defence Partnership 
(SDP) dialogue in February, we strengthened our commitment to providing mentoring 
and capacity-building support to agencies tackling the threat of kidnap within Nigeria. 
As part of this partnership, the UK National Crime Agency is working with Nigeria to 

create a Multi-Agency Kidnap Fusion Cell to increase interoperability between 
security and justice agencies responding to kidnaps. This will help reduce harm to 
victims and hold those responsible to account. 

  Options: Finance 

Jeremy Corbyn:        

 [18639] 

To ask the Minister of State, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office what 
steps his Department takes to ensure that a significant percentage of the funds awarded 
to Options Consultancy Ltd reaches grassroots led organisations. 

Mr Andrew Mitchell: 
The FCDO has controls in place to ensure that funds awarded to Options 
Consultancy Ltd, and to all suppliers, are used for their intended purposes. The 
FCDO's 'rule book' which guides all FCDO programme spending, known as the 
Programme Operating Framework, contains clear rules and guidance on the lifecycle 
of a programme from design to delivery. The FCDO agrees upfront with suppliers 
such as Options Consultancy what each programme must deliver, including how local 
knowledge and expertise will be used to strengthen delivery. There are established 
mechanisms to monitor and verify that Options Consultancy Ltd are delivering on 
these agreements. The FCDO recognises that inclusion of grassroots led 
organisations in the supply chain improves overall value and increases the chance of 
lasting impact. 

  South Sudan: Sudan 

Ms Lyn Brown:        

 [18685] 

To ask the Minister of State, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, what 
assessment he has made of the implications for his policies of (a) recent violence in the 
Abyei Administrative Area and (b) the capacity of the UN Interim Security Force for Abyei 
(UNISFA ) to protect civilians affected by that violence; and what recent discussions he 
has had with (i) UNISFA , (ii) the authorities in South Sudan, (iii) the African Union and 
(iv) the Intergovernmental Authority on Development on the situation in Abyei. 

Mr Andrew Mitchell: 
The UK condemns the recent escalation of violence in Abyei. We released a 
statement alongside Troika (US, Norway) partners on January 29, to condemn the 
armed attacks in Abyei and urge the Government of South Sudan to urgently 
withdraw its troops in line with its commitments under the 2011 Status of Forces 
Agreement. The United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei's (UNISFA) mandate 
was renewed in November 2023 and amended to better equip the mission to respond 
quickly to security incidents and to place greater emphasis on community 
engagement. The UK is using its position as a permanent member of the Security 
Council to urge both the government of South Sudan and the de facto Sudanese 
authorities to ensure UNISFA can fully and effectively implement its mandate. We 
echo the UN Secretary-General's encouragement for the African Union to intensify its 

mediation efforts to help reach a political solution for Abyei and we encourage The 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) to engage in this process. 

  UNRWA: Finance 

Beth Winter:        

 [18310] 

To ask the Minister of State, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, with 
reference to the Minister of State's oral contribution of 12 March 2024, Official Report, 
column 133, what assessment he has made of the adequacy of the capacity of the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency to sustain the population of Gaza through delivery of 
aid at current volumes until the UK's next payment to the agency is due in April. 

Mr Andrew Mitchell: 
The UK provided £35 million to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
(UNRWA) this financial year, including an uplift of £16 million for the Gaza 
humanitarian response since 7 October, all of which was disbursed before the recent 
allegations came to light. No more UK funding is due this financial year. 

Our decision to pause future funding to UNRWA has no impact on the UK's 
contribution to the humanitarian response. We remain committed to getting 
humanitarian aid to the people in Gaza who desperately need it. Our commitment to 
trebling aid to Gaza still stands. The Foreign Secretary announced a further £10 
million in aid funding for the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPTs) on 13 March, 
bringing the total spend to over £100 million this financial year. Together with 
partners we are working to get aid in as quickly as possible by land, sea and air. 

  HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE 

  Department of Health and Social Care: Domestic Visits 

Nick Thomas-Symonds:        

 [17999] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, what the destinations were of 
domestic overnight visits undertaken by Ministers within their Department in each of the 
last three financial years. 

Andrew Stephenson: 
 [Holding answer 18 March 2024]: The Government publishes the details of the cost 
of overseas ministerial travel, including costs of travel, and other costs like 
accommodation and meals, on the GOV.UK website. But as has been the case under 
successive administrations, the Government does not publish granular detail on 
ministers’ travel at home or abroad. 

  Hospitals: Older People 

Karin Smyth:        

 [19386] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, how many hospital admissions 
for patients aged 65 and over were the result of a fall in 2012-13. 

Helen Whately: 
NHS England published information on finished consultant episodes for admitted 
patients in 2012/13, which is available at the following link: 

https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/publications/statistical/hospital-admitted-
patient-care-activity/hospital-episode-statistics-admitted-patient-care-england-2012-
13 

This shows in 2012/13, there were 283,794 finished consultant episodes relating to a 
fall, where the patient was 65 years old or over. 

  Lung Cancer: Screening 

Karin Smyth:        

 [18730] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, what plans NHS England has to 
update the standard protocol for the Targeted Lung Health Check programme to reflect 
work carried out by the National Screening Committee’s lung cancer screening task 
group. 

Andrew Stephenson: 
 [Holding answer 19 March 2024]: The standard protocol for the Targeted Lung 
Health Check (TLHC) programme was last updated in November 2022, with the 
protocol and quality assurance standards being regularly reviewed by the 
programme’s Expert Advisory Group. 

When the TLHC protocol is next updated, it will take into account feedback received 
since the last update, including work carried out by the UK National Screening 
Committee’s lung cancer screening task group. The focus of the task group has been 
to support the feasibility of the rollout of a national targeted lung cancer screening 
programme, and developing aspects of planning and implementation. 

Karin Smyth:        

 [18732] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, if she will publish an 
assessment of the CT scanner capacity required to support the national roll-out of lung 
cancer screening by 2028. 

Andrew Stephenson: 
 [Holding answer 19 March 2024]: NHS England is responsible for the roll out of the 
NHS Lung Cancer Screening Programme, and has no plans to publish an 
assessment of the computed tomography scanner capacity required. 

  Medicine: Students 

Steve McCabe:        

 [18832] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, with reference to the Answer of 
24 May 2022 to Question 5381 on Medicine: Students, if she will make an assessment of 
the potential merits of uprating the bursary amount paid for fifth year medical students. 

Andrew Stephenson: 
The NHS Bursary funding arrangements are reviewed annually, ahead of the start of 
each academic year. For the 2023/24 academic year, the Government uplifted travel 
and dual accommodation expense rates for the NHS Bursary by 50%, with the 
exception of travel by public transport, which continues to be reimbursed at cost. We 
also uplifted disabled students’ allowance, childcare rates, and the means-testing 
threshold, increasing the amount of funding available to support medical students. 

  Yellow Card Scheme: Medical Records 

Sir Christopher Chope:        

 [18345] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, on what date work on digitally 
linking Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority Yellow Card information 
to NHS clinical records (a) began and (b) is expected to be completed. 

Andrew Stephenson: 
 [Holding answer 18 March 2024]: The Medicines and Healthcare products 
Regulatory Agency (MHRA) has been working with the National Health Service to 
explore approaches to facilitate digital linkage of Yellow Card information to clinical 
records, and to potentially enable faster access to information, where considered 
necessary for an assessment. Any such approach would be subject to strict 
information governance controls and prior consultation with stakeholder groups. 

In 2020, the MHRA began delivery of a substantially enhanced Yellow Card platform 
under the SafetyConnect programme, aligned to the recommendations in Baroness 
Cumberlege’s Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review. The new 
infrastructure is designed with the intent of enabling connectivity to other systems, to 
facilitate the exchange of information. During that time the MHRA has engaged with 
the NHS around the evolving technical options for robust and secure connectivity and 
enhanced user journeys. The first step in these enhancements is use of the common 
NHS login capability within Yellow Card, which is expected to go live in 2024. 

Deeper connectivity between systems will be subject to internal and external 
stakeholder engagement and substantial information governance controls, with 
elements completed over a phased and multi-year work plan. 

  HOME OFFICE 

  Ask for ANI Scheme: Expenditure 

Jess Phillips:        

 [19380] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, what the cost to the public purse 
was of the Ask for ANI domestic abuse scheme in 2023. 

Laura Farris: 
The Home Office allocated £243,662 in the financial year 2022/23 and £168,449 in 
the financial year 2023/24 to Hestia Housing for the delivery of the Ask for ANI 
scheme. 

In the financial year 2022/23, we also allocated £45,323 to develop an e-learning 
module and accompanying communications assets to complement the launch of the 
Ask for ANI in Jobcentre and Jobs and Benefits Offices pilot sites. 

The Home Office has also commissioned an independent evaluation to understand 
how the scheme has been implemented across the Jobcentre and Jobs and Benefits 
Offices pilot sites. This evaluation is yet to be concluded but has so far cost 
£116,087. 

  Asylum 

Andrew Percy:        

 [18695] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, how many asylum claims have 
been successfully made by citizens of (a) Israel, (b) the United States, (c) Canada, (d) 
New Zealand, (e) Australia, (f) Germany, (g) Spain, (h) France and (i) Italy in each of the 
last five years. 

Tom Pursglove: 
The Home Office publishes data on asylum in the ‘Immigration System Statistics 
Quarterly Release’. Data on asylum applications received, and the initial decisions on 
claims, is published in tables Asy_D01 and Asy_D02 of the ‘Asylum applications, 
decisions and resettlement detailed datasets’. This data includes nationality 
breakdowns. 

Information on how to use the datasets can be found in the ‘Notes’ page of each 
workbook. The latest data relates to 31 December 2023. Data up to the end of March 
2024 will be published on 23 May 2024. 

Information on future Home Office statistical release dates can be found in the ‘ 
Research and statistics calendar’. 

  Asylum: Hotels 

Mike Amesbury:        

 [19170] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether his Department has 
made an assessment of the potential merits of providing exit plans from hotel 
accommodation to give settled residents 56 days notice. 

Tom Pursglove: 
Since September 2023, all individuals receive a minimum of 28 days’ support 
(including accommodation) after being issued with a Biometric Residence Permit 
(BRP). There are no current plans to extend the 28 days prescribed in legislation due 
to the huge pressures on the asylum system. 

We offer move on support to all individuals through Migrant Help or their partner 
organisation. This includes providing advice on accessing the labour market, on 
applying for Universal Credit and signposting to local authorities for assistance with 
housing. Individuals do not need to wait for their BRP to make a claim for benefits 
and are encouraged to do so as early as possible if they require them. 

We work closely with the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities 
(DLUHC) to ensure the right asylum decision data is being shared with local 
authorities to enable effective planning and to lessen the impact on existing 
homelessness and rough sleeping pressures. Our accommodation providers are 
directly working with local authorities to notify them when an individual is due to have 
their asylum support ended. We are working with our partners, including local 
authorities, to provide timely notification of key events that impact them. We are 
working with our Strategic Migration Partners (SMPs) to facilitate regional sessions 
with councils and to share data. 

We are also utilising Home Office Liaison Officers (HOLOs) to replicate part of the 
Afghan resettlement move on process. We have been working in three local authority 
areas since December 2023; Glasgow, Brent and Hillingdon. This has now been 
expanded to Manchester and Liverpool. 

  Asylum: Rwanda 

Dame Diana Johnson:        

 [19301] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if he will make an estimate of the 
cost of establishing an appeal body for asylum applications processed in Rwanda under 
the UK-Rwanda treaty. 

Michael Tomlinson: 
We are working at pace with the Government of Rwanda to establish an appeal body 
for asylum applications. More details on this will be released in due course. 

  Asylum: Weaver Vale 

Mike Amesbury:        

 [19169] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, when his Department plans to 
end the use of hotels in Weaver Vale constituency for (a) adults and (b) children seeking 
asylum. 

Tom Pursglove: 
By the end of this month, we will have successfully closed 100 hotels. We continue to 
work with accommodation providers on closing further hotels across the estate and 
will write to local authorities and MPs when a decision to close a site has been made. 

  Heathrow Airport: Immigration Controls 

Anneliese Dodds:        

 [19448] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, pursuant to the Answer of 27 
February 2024 to Question 15335 on Heathrow Airport: Immigration Controls, if he will 
publish the Equality Impact Assessments produced for the (a) Heathrow Change 
Programme and (b) proposed roster system. 

Tom Pursglove: 
An Equality Impact Assessment on the Heathrow Change Programme was published 
electronically to departmental trade unions on 4 August 2023. 

An Equality Impact Assessment on the proposed roster was published electronically 
to departmental trade unions on 13 September 2023. 

  Humberside Police: Burglary 

Sir Greg Knight:        

 [19295] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he has had discussions 
with Humberside police on the pledge that a police officer will attend every burgled home. 

Chris Philp: 
The Crime Survey for England and Wales data shows a 56% fall in domestic 
burglaries when comparing the year ending September 2023 with year ending March 
2010. This is clearly good news; however, we recognise the impact domestic burglary 
can have on individuals and communities and we are committed to tackling and 
preventing this crime. 

The public rightly expects that the police will visit them when a home burglary has 
been committed, which is why we welcome the announcement made by the National 
Police Chiefs’ Council (NPCC) on 8 June 2023 that all 43 police forces in England 
and Wales have been implementing this attendance policy since March 2023. 
https://news.npcc.police.uk/releases/police-now-attending-scene-of-every-home-
burglary. 

The police commitment to attend home burglaries is supported by specific College of 
Policing good practice guidance on conducting residential burglary investigations: 
https://www.college.police.uk/guidance/residential-burglary. 

We continue to liaise with Humberside Police and the NPCC who play a key role in 
tackling burglary through an array of different forums, including the Residential 
Burglary Taskforce and the National Policing Board. We are also working with police 
leaders across England and Wales to ensure forces are making their attendance data 
available to the public. 

HMICFRS will be doing an inspection on Investigations shortly. 

Iran: Sanctions 

Sir Iain Duncan Smith:        

 [18632] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, what steps his Department plans 
to take to tackle hostile activities by the Iranian regime in the UK, in the context of recent 
reports of (a) threats to British journalists and human rights defenders by the Islamic 
Revolutionary Guard Corps and (b) the use UK-based banks to procure funds in breach 
of UK sanctions. 

Tom Tugendhat: 
We do not routinely comment on operational matters or specific threats. However, we 
take the protection of individuals’ rights, freedoms and safety in the UK very 
seriously. We continually assess potential threats in the UK and use all tools at our 
disposal to protect the UK and our interests from any Iran-linked threats. 

UK businesses – including banks – are expected to perform due diligence checks on 
all of their customers and clients to ensure compliance with all UK sanctions 
regulations. 

The UK is committed to ensuring that our sanctions are robustly enforced, potential 
breaches are assessed, and appropriate action is taken where a breach is identified. 
Non-compliance with UK sanctions is a serious offence and punishable through 
disclosures, financial penalties, or criminal prosecution. Departments from across 
HMG – including FCDO, HMT, OFSI, HMRC, HO, and the NCA – are working 
together, and with UK companies, to ensure that sanctions are enforced. 

Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps 

Sir Iain Duncan Smith:        

 [18633] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, for what reason the Government 
has not proscribed the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps; and what discussions he has 
had with his US counterpart on that issue. 

Tom Tugendhat: 
While the UK Government keeps the list of proscribed organisations under review, we 
do not routinely comment on whether an organisation is or is not being considered for 
proscription. 

The UK Government has long been clear about our concerns over the malign activity 
of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). The UK maintains sanctions on 
over 400 Iranian individuals and entities covering human rights abuses and nuclear 
proliferation. The Government has also imposed sanctions on the IRGC in its entirety 
and on several senior security and political figures in Iran, including senior 
commanders within the IRGC and its Basij force. 

The UK Government, working with the US, has engaged closely with European 
partners on Iranian transnational threats and we will continue to hold Iran and the 
IRGC to account. On 24 January 2024, we took coordinated action with the US and 

 
 
imposed sanctions on several members of the IRGC for their involvement in plots to 
assassinate individuals on UK soil. 

  Members: Correspondence 

John Penrose:        

 [18686] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, when he will plans reply to the 
letters of 15 January and 12 February 2024 from the Hon. Member for Weston-super-
Mare on behalf of a constituent about potential examples of two-tier policing in the UK. 

Chris Philp: 
A reply was sent to the hon. Member on 14 March 2024. I apologise for the delay in 
responding. 

  Retail Trade: Crimes of Violence 

Stephen Morgan:        

 [18942] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, what assessment his 
Department has made of the impact of the introduction of the aggravating factor for 
attacks on public facing workers on levels of retail crime. 

Chris Philp: 
The Government is clear that violent and abusive behaviour towards any worker, 
particularly those who provide a valuable service to the public, is never acceptable. 

In 2022, we took the significant step to introduce a statutory aggravating factor for 
assault against those who are serving the public. Section 156 of the Police, Crime, 
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 means the public facing nature of a victim’s role will 
be considered an aggravating factor when it comes to sentencing for assault 
offences, allowing the court to give a longer sentence within the statutory maximum 
for the offence. 

Assaults against retail workers are not separately identifiable in police recorded crime 
data held centrally by the Home Office. 

The Government shares concerns about the level of assaults against retailers. In 
October 2023, the National Police Chiefs’ Council (NPCC) published the Retail Crime 
Action Plan. Through this Plan, all forces across England and Wales have committed 
to prioritise police attendance at the scene where violence has been used towards 
shop staff, where an offender has been detained by store security, and where 
evidence needs to be secured and can only be done by police personnel. 
Additionally, where CCTV or other digital images are secured, police will run this 
through the Police National Database to aid efforts to identify prolific offenders or 
potentially dangerous individuals. 

The longer-term impact of the Action Plan will continue to be monitored; however, 
retailers have reported early signs of improvement in the police response to retail 
crime and according to data collected by the NPCC from a dip sample of forces in 
December 2023, police attended 60% of crimes reported by retailers where violence 

had been used, with 16% of forces sampled reporting 100% attendance to this type 
of incident: Policing Retail Crime Action Plan shows early impact (npcc.police.uk). 

  Seasonal Workers: Pay 

Stuart C McDonald:        

 [18726] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, pursuant to the Answer of 26 
February 2024 to Question 14330 on Seasonal Workers, who is responsible for ensuring 
that seasonal workers receive a minimum of 32 hour’s pay each week for each week of 
their time in the UK; and what steps his Department is taking to support enforcement of 
this. 

Stuart C McDonald:        

 [18727] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who is responsible for (a) 
accommodating, (b) maintaining, (c) supporting and (d) compensating workers in the UK 
on the Seasonal Worker visa who become ill; who is responsible for (i) monitoring and (ii) 
enforcing this right; and which body handles complaints on healthcare support for those 
workers. 

Tom Pursglove: 
The Scheme Operators are responsible for monitoring pay, conditions, and worker’s 
general welfare whilst they are in the UK. 

The Home Office works closely with DEFRA to monitor the scheme to ensure 
Scheme Operators adhere to the stringent requirements set for ensuring the safety 
and wellbeing of the seasonal workers. This includes ongoing monitoring of the 
route’s performance, regular communication with Scheme Operators and ongoing 
compliance monitoring which is underpinned by compliance visits to both Scheme 
Operators and growers, which are carried out by UKVI. Action is taken if concerns 
are identified during sponsor visits, with sponsor licences being suspended while 
UKVI investigate further. 

  Undocumented Migrants: Stoke-on-Trent 

Jonathan Gullis:        

 [18813] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, how many and what proportion 
of illegal migrants were (a) in Stoke-on-Trent and (b) housed in hotels in Stoke-on-Trent 
in the last 12 months; and how many have been removed since October 2023. 

Michael Tomlinson: 
The Home Office publishes data on irregular arrivals to the UK in the ‘Irregular 
migration to the UK statistics’ release. Data on detected irregular arrivals is published 
in table Irr_01 and data on returns of small boat arrivals is published in table Irr_02e 
of the ‘Irregular migration to the UK summary tables’, with the latest data up to the 
end of December 2023. Data on all returns is published in table Ret_D01 of the 
‘Returns detailed datasets’ as part of the ‘Immigration system statistics’ quarterly 
release. 

These statistics should not be used to infer the size of the irregular population in the 
UK, nor the total number of people entering the UK irregularly. The location of 
irregular arrivals is not published. However, the Home Office does publish data on 
asylum seekers in receipt of support by local authority, some of whom will have 
entered the UK through irregular methods, in table Asy_D11 of the ‘ Asylum and 
resettlement data tables ’ as part of the ‘ Immigration system statistics ’ quarterly 
release. 

  Vetting: Standards 

Mr Rob Roberts:        

 [19488] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, what his Department's standard 
completion timetable is for processing DBS applications; how many applications his 
Department are processing and how many applications have been processed outside the 
standard timetable in the last 12 months. 

Laura Farris: 
For the 2023/24 financial year, the Disclosure and Barring Service’s (DBS) targets 
are to complete 85% of Basic checks within two days, 85% of Standard checks within 
three days, and 80% of Enhanced checks within 14 days. 

DBS publishes its performance against these targets on a quarterly basis at DBS 
dataset 1: DBS checks, the DBS Update Service, and disputes - GOV.UK 
(www.gov.uk). This includes the total monthly volumes of applications processed and 
the totals issued within target. The latest published information is up to December 
2023. 

In addition to this data, DBS’s performance for January and February 2024 is as 
follows: 

•  Basic checks – 435,350 checks processed of which 382,412 completed within the 

two-day target, exceeding the 85% target. 

•  Standard checks – 70,729 checks processed, of which 62,898 completed within the 

three-day target, exceeding the 85% target. 

•  Enhanced checks – 691,244 checks processed, of which 544,082 completed within 

the 14-day target, achieving 78.7% against the 80% target. 

  Visas: Care Workers 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [18769] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, what steps he is taking to ensure 
that the application process for visa renewals for care workers is efficient. 

Tom Pursglove: 
The Home Office carries out robust security and eligibility checks and each Certificate 
of Sponsorship is assessed to ensure there is a licensed sponsor and that the roles 
are valid. 

Technological advances have also improved the customer journey meaning that large 
numbers are no longer required to attend a physical enrolment centre, plus Health 
and Care visas provide a more generous service standard than the wider Skilled 
Worker route. 

Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi:        

 [18770] 

To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, what discussions he has had 
with the home care sector on the impact of changes to care worker visa policy. 

Tom Pursglove: 
The Government engages regularly with business sectors, including through a 
number of its advisory groups, when developing its policies and we will continue to 
strike the balance between reducing overall net migration and ensuring that 
businesses have the skills they need. 

  JUSTICE 

  Legal Representation 

Alex Cunningham:        

 [19348] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, with reference to the document entitled 
Qualified legal representative appointed by the Court: Statutory guidance, published in 
July 2022, how many qualified legal representatives have been registered in (a) family 
and (b) other civil cases since the publication of that guidance. 

Alex Cunningham:        

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, in how many cases a qualified legal 
representative was (a) required and (b) available. 

Alex Cunningham:        

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, in how many cases a qualified legal 
representative was (a) required and (b) not available. 

Alex Cunningham:        

 [19349] 

 [19350] 

 [19351] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, how many qualified legal representatives had 
completed vulnerable witness training when they registered for the scheme. 

Alex Cunningham:        

 [19352] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, whether his Department is taking steps to 
monitor the requirement for qualified legal representatives to undergo vulnerable witness 
training within six months of registering. 

Laura Farris: 
The Qualified Legal Representative (QLR) scheme was introduced in July 2022, 
following the Government’s Domestic Abuse Act (2021) which prohibited 
unrepresented perpetrators or alleged perpetrators of abuse from cross-examining 
their victims or alleged victims in family and civil proceedings, and vice versa. The 

prohibition ensures that vulnerable victims and witnesses are not traumatised by 
being cross-examined directly by their alleged perpetrator. 

As of 20 March 2024, there are currently 366 QLRs registered to undertake work in 
the family courts and 78 QLRs registered to undertake work in the civil courts. We do 
not hold central data on total registrations since the publication of the statutory 
guidance. 

Circumstances under which a QLR is required vary, for example, depending on 
whether parties have their own representation, and decisions on which cases require 
QLRs are taken by the courts. We do not collect data centrally on how many cases 
have required a QLR, or the number of QLRs that have presented cases under the 
scheme. 

We do not hold central data on how many QLRs have completed training, which they 
are able to access from a range of external providers. The Government encourages 
legal professionals to take up this important work to assist in both the family and civil 
courts, and to complete the required training as early as practicable. 

  Magistrates 

Liz Saville Roberts:        

 [19516] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, what recent assessment he has made of the 
effectiveness of single justice procedure notices. 

Mike Freer: 
HMCTS assessed the Single Justice Procedure Notice (SJPN) following a pilot with 
two prosecutors, the Metropolitan Police Service and TV Licensing, between 
December 2019 and February 2020 where a redesigned SJPN was trialled. 

The SJPN was redesigned to encourage engagement. The pilot assessment showed 
that this was successful as the online plea rates and form completion improved 
following the redesigned SJPN. As a result of this there was an agreement to rollout 
the revised notice to all prosecutors who use the Single Justice Procedure. 

Details of the assessment were published on 29 July 2022 and can be found by 
following the link: HMCTS single justice procedure notice pilots assessment - 
GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 

  Prison Officers: Pension Rights 

Grahame Morris:        

 [19322] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, how many pre-Fresh Start prison officers with 
reserved pension rights remain in service. 

Grahame Morris:        

 [19323] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Justice, when the last pre-Fresh Start prison officer with 
reserved pension rights retired from service. 

Edward Argar: 
Currently there are 11 full time and 181 partially retired operational uniform staff who 
retained Pre-Fresh Start Reserved Rights Terms under the legacy PCSPS Classic 
scheme. There are also 19 partially retired Operational Managers who retained Pre-
Fresh Start terms under the legacy PCSPS Classic scheme at the date of taking their 
benefits. 

  LEVELLING UP, HOUSING AND COMMUNITIES 

  Domestic Abuse 

Caroline Lucas:        

 [18692] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, if he will make 
an assessment of the potential implications for his Department's policies of the report by 
Women's Aid entitled Domestic Abuse Report 2024, The Annual Audit, published in 
February 2024; and whether his Department is taking steps to increase funding for the 
specialist domestic abuse sector. 

Felicity Buchan: 
The Government recognises the vital role of local domestic abuse organisations in 
supporting victims and survivors of domestic abuse, as highlighted by the Women’s 
Aid 2024 Annual Report. 

The Government is committed to the delivery of safe accommodation with support for 
victims of domestic abuse and their children who need to flee their homes and has 
placed a duty on councils to provide safe accommodation services to victims under 
the Domestic Abuse Act 2021. 

Since 2021, the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities (DLUHC) 
has committed over £507 million, including £129.7 million in 2024/25, to councils 
across England to fund this duty. Funding from April 2025 will be determined at the 
next Spending Review. 

I work closely with the Domestic Abuse Commissioner, the Local Government 
Association, and the domestic abuse sector, including Women’s Aid, through a 
National Expert Steering Group on safe accommodation to ensure that councils have 
the support they need to deliver their duty requirements. DLUHC is also working 
closely with Women’s Aid, the specialist ‘by and for’ sector and local authorities to 
explore ways to improve the commissioning of 'by and for' services. 

  High Rise Flats: House Insurance 

Mike Amesbury:        

 [19172] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, if he will make 
an assessment of the potential implications for his policies of the Association of British 
Insurers plan to reduce insurance costs for leaseholders and residents in high rise 
buildings. 

Lee Rowley: 
The Government is very aware that leaseholders in some affected buildings have 
been burdened with paying extremely high premiums for too long. The industry-led 
Fire Safety Reinsurance Facility will be launched on 1st April. We have repeatedly 
called for this to be launched and it has taken too long to do so, but now it is due to 
launch the Government will monitor the implementation and impact of the Facility and 
will remain engaged with industry regarding whether any further steps may be 
required. 

  Housing: Environment Protection 

Andrew Lewer:        

 [18797] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, what (a) policy 
and (b) regulatory steps his Department is taking to enable greater competition amongst 
utility providers to ensure the speedy delivery of green homes. 

Lee Rowley: 
The department is working towards delivering the greener homes of the future and in 
doing so the department will collaborate with key partners across government. I 
would be happy to meet my Hon Friend to discuss further, should that be helpful. 

  Housing: Insulation 

Stephen Doughty:        

 [19071] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, what steps he 
is taking to support people in Wales with incorrectly installed cavity wall insulation. 

Lee Rowley: 
This is a devolved matter. 

  SCIENCE, INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY 

  Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products: Scotland 

Ian Murray:        

 [18416] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology, what steps her 
Department is taking to help support research into cell and gene therapy in Scotland. 

Andrew Griffith: 
The UK is a world-leader in the development and manufacture of cell and gene 
therapies thanks to government investment in innovation and skills, including through 
the Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult (CGTC). 

DSIT also invested £10 million - alongside £10 million from Scottish Enterprise – to 
support a new Oligonucleotide Manufacturing Innovation Centre of Excellence in 
Glasgow. 

The Vaccine Taskforce provided funding for a state-of-the art CGTC facility in 
Braintree to accelerate the development and manufacturing of advanced therapies at 
clinical and commercial scale. 

My department also supported CGTC to establish apprenticeships and training 
programmes to upskill people across the UK. 

  Broadband: Social Tariffs 

Kenny MacAskill:        

 [19479] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology, pursuant to the 
Answer of 11 March 2024 to Question 17385 on Broadband: Social Tariffs, what steps 
she is taking to ensure that access to social tariffs is equitable across (a) regions and (b) 
nations. 

Julia Lopez: 
Social tariffs are available in 99% of the UK and are offered by a range of telecoms 
providers. National providers, such as BT, Virgin Media, Sky and Vodafone, as well 
as regional or local ‘alternative network providers’ (often referred to as altnets) such 
as Community Fibre, Greyshott Gigabit Connect, and Lothian Broadband offer social 
tariffs. Mobile social tariffs are also available nationwide, using normal mobile 
networks across the UK. Ofcom has published a full list of social tariffs and the 
locations they are available on their website. 

We recognise that the delivery of social tariffs by regional or local altnets means that 
not all eligible consumers are able to access every social tariff, however provision by 
internet service providers (ISPs) on Openreach’s national telecoms network means 
that vast majority households across the UK will have social tariff options from their 
provider. 

We continue to work with operators to encourage them to do all they can to support 
customers and ensure strong provision of social tariffs across all the UK. 

  Department for Science, Innovation and Technology: Domestic Visits 

Jonathan Ashworth:        

 [19365] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology, on how many 
occasions Ministers from her Department and its predecessor Department have visited 
(a) Wales, (b) Scotland and (c) Northern Ireland in each of the last three financial years. 

Andrew Griffith: 
Across the UK Government we are committed to delivering the best possible 
outcomes for all citizens, no matter where in the country they call home. All citizens 
contribute to the strength of the United Kingdom which is the most successful political 
and economic union the world has ever seen. 

We do not hold information centrally on all Ministerial visits to Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland conducted since the Department for Science, Innovation and 

Technology was established in February 2023. However, we are able to provide 
some detail of recent Ministerial visits. 

This week, the Minister for Science visited Edinburgh for Arctic Science Summit 
Week. 

In December 2023, Minister for Technology and the Digital Economy visited the 
compound semiconductor cluster in South Wales. 

In May 2023, Chloe Smith MP also visited the compound semiconductor cluster in 
May 2023 during her time as Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and 
Technology. 

Earlier this month, the Minister for AI and Intellectual Property visited Belfast for 
CyberNI Week. The Minister also visited Belfast for CyberNI week in April 2023, 
along with a visit to the Intellectual Property Office HQ Newport, Wales in November 
2023. 

  National Security Online Information Team: Social Media 

Peter Kyle:        

 [19414] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology, with reference to 
the opening statement by the Secretary of State at the Lords Science, Innovation and 
Technology Select Committee on 12 March 2024, whether the officials who alerted her to 
tweets posted by a EDI board member were part of the Counter Disinformation Unit. 

Andrew Griffith: 
No. 

  TRANSPORT 

  Avanti West Coast: Catering 

Grahame Morris:        

 [19316] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Transport, if he will make an assessment of the 
adequacy of the on-board catering capacity of the Class 390 Pendolino trains operated 
by Avanti West Coast following the refurbishment of that train fleet. 

Huw Merriman: 
The on-board catering capacity on the refurbished Class 390 Pendolino fleet is a 
matter for the operator. However, officials regularly hold Avanti West Coast (AWC) to 
account on the on-board customer experience they provide to passengers including 
catering services. 

  Cars: Crime Prevention 

Sir Charles Walker:        

 [19299] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Transport, if he will hold discussions with insurers on 
encouraging car owners to fit car security systems to (a) deter theft and (b) reduce their 
insurance premiums. 

Guy Opperman: 
New cars and light commercial vehicles require systems to prevent unauthorised use, 
immobilisers and a vehicle alarm system to enable them to be registered. Department 
for Transport officials regularly liaise with representatives of the motor insurance 
industry on a variety of issues such as the cost of insurance. However individual 
insurers are responsible for setting the terms and conditions of the policies that they 
offer. The Government does not intervene or seek to control the market. 

  Cars: Insurance 

Kim Leadbeater:        

 [19510] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Transport, if he will hold discussions with car insurance 
providers on the cost of insurance for young drivers. 

Guy Opperman: 
Department for Transport officials regularly liaise with representatives of the motor 
insurance industry on a variety of issues such as the cost of insurance. However, it is 
the responsibility of individual motor insurers to set premiums and the terms and 
conditions of their policies, and the Government does not intervene or seek to control 
the market. 

The Government is determined that insurers should treat customers fairly and firms 
are required to do so under the Financial Conduct Authority rules. 

There is evidence to suggest that younger drivers and those with less experience 
carry a higher risk.  Some insurers have introduced the use of telematics or in-car 
black boxes to allow better risk-based pricing of insurance, especially for new 
drivers.  It means insurers now have a real time data feed, which allows them to see 
an individual’s driving behaviour; this had not been possible in the past. This can help 
reduce insurance premiums if drivers show good driving behaviour with a black box 
installed in their cars. 

  Roads: Safety 

Helen Morgan:        

 [18330] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Transport, what steps he is taking to support National 
Highways in working to reduce the number of people killed or seriously injured on the 
Strategic Road Network. 

Helen Morgan:        

 [18331] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Transport, what steps he is taking to help improve 
safety on the strategic road network. 

Helen Morgan:        

 [18332] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Transport, what steps his Department is taking to 
ensure that programmes for improving safety on the strategic road network receive 
adequate funding. 

Guy Opperman: 
The Government is investing £24 billion on the Strategic Road Network during the 
second Road Investment Strategy (RIS2 - 2020-2025) to fund the operation, 
maintenance, renewal and enhancement of the network. Safety is a key 
consideration National Highways takes into account across all its activity and much of 
this investment aims to improve safety across the network for all road users. A 
specific Safety and Congestion Fund, worth £140m in RIS2, is in place as part of 
National Highways’ Designated Funds programme and aims to deliver over 150 
safety improvements on specific high-risk roads, accident-cluster locations and 
potential suicide-cluster areas, to help reduce the number of people killed or seriously 
injured on the Strategic Road Network. 

The Department for Transport and the Office of Rail and Road, in its capacity of 
Highways Monitor, hold National Highways to account for delivery against its 
performance indicators and work collectively to ensure appropriate action plans are in 
place to maximise safety on the network. 

  TREASURY 

  Banks: Closures 

Rachael Maskell:        

 [18747] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he has made an assessment of the 
potential impact of bank closures on (a) local communities and (b) elderly people's 
access to banking services. 

Bim Afolami: 
Whilst decisions to open or close a bank branch are commercial decisions for firms, 
and the Government does not intervene on individual closures, it is imperative that 
banks and building societies recognise the needs of all their customers, including 
those who still need to use in-person services. The impact of branch closures must 
be mitigated where possible so that all customers, wherever they live, continue to 
have appropriate access to banking services. 

The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)’s guidance sets out that firms must carefully 
consider the impact of planned branch closures on their customers’ everyday banking 
and cash access needs, and put in place reasonable alternatives. This seeks to 
ensure the implementation of closure decisions is done in a way that treats 

customers fairly. Where firms fall short, the FCA may ask for closures to be paused 
or other options to be put in place. 

Alternative options to access everyday banking services can be via telephone 
banking, through digital means such as mobile or online banking and via the Post 
Office or Banking Hubs. The Post Office allows personal and business customers to 
carry out everyday banking services at 11,500 Post Office branches across the UK. 

Banking Hubs are an initiative which enable customers of participating banks to 
access cash and banking services in shared facilities. Over 100 Banking Hubs have 
been announced so far, and the Government hopes to see these Hubs open as soon 
as possible. 

  Credit: Regulation 

Dan Carden:        

 [18773] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether his Department plans to increase the 
regulation digital buy-now pay-later products. 

Bim Afolami: 
The Government is committed to regulating Buy-Now Pay-Later (BNPL).The 
Government will publish a response to the consultation, which will set out next steps, 
in due course. 

  Debt Collection: Regulation 

Dan Carden:        

 [18774] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he will bring forward legislative proposals to 
improve the regulation of debt collection practices. 

Bim Afolami: 
The Government wants to see fair treatment of individuals in problem debt, and there 
is a range of work underway across government and regulators to promote 
responsible debt collection practices. 

In June 2023 the FCA, Ofgem, Ofwat and Ofcom published a joint letter via the UK 
Regulators’ Network (UKRN) setting out how firms in their respective sectors should 
support customers in financial difficulty. On 18 March 2024, the same group of 
regulators issued further guidance, setting out their shared expectations on firms’ 
debt collection practices. This is to ensure that firms support customers in debt and 
that firms’ collection practices are not causing harm to customers. 

Iran: Financial Institutions 

Sir Iain Duncan Smith:        

 [18629] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what steps he has taken to investigate (a) Bank 
Saderat PLC, (b) Melli Bank PLC and (c) other Iranian financial institutions based in the 
UK with links to the Iranian Government. 

 
Sir Iain Duncan Smith:        

 [18630] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what steps he is taking to ensure that UK 
financial institutions comply with UK sanctions against Iran. 

Sir Iain Duncan Smith:        

 [18631] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what steps he plans to take to hold to account 
UK-based (a) entities and (b) people continuing to deal with the (i) Iranian Government 
and (ii) IRGC in breach of UK sanctions. 

Bim Afolami: 
The Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) is the authority responsible 
for implementing and enforcing the UK’s financial sanctions on behalf of HM 
Treasury. 

On 14 December 2023, the UK announced a new sanctions regime that gives the UK 
extensive new powers to disrupt and deter Iran’s hostile activities in the UK and 
around the world. This has been developed to respond to unprecedented threats from 
the Iranian regime, including efforts to undermine peace and security across the 
Middle East and plots to kill individuals on UK soil. Overall, the UK has designated 
over 400 Iranian individuals and entities including in relation to Iran’s destabilising 
regional activity, human rights abuses, and nuclear proliferation. 

OFSI assesses every instance of reported non-compliance and will act in all cases 
where we conclude a breach has occurred. OFSI does not comment on specific 
cases. 

Non-compliance with UK sanctions is a serious offence and punishable through 
disclosures, large financial penalties, or criminal prosecution. Departments from 
across HMG including FCDO, HMT, OFSI, HMRC, HO, and the NCA, are working 
together, and with UK companies, to ensure that sanctions are enforced. 

  Pension Funds 

Matt Western:        

 [19425] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what steps he is taking to ensure that investors 
in pension funds have the right (a) for complaints to be determined by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and (b) to receive redress from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme. 

Bim Afolami: 
The Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) can consider complaints about businesses 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which includes firms that provide 
self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs). The jurisdiction of the FOS, including which 
complaints it can deal with, is determined by the FCA and set out in the FCA 
Handbook. Whether a complaint is eligible or not is a matter for the FOS to consider. 

  Schools: Concrete 

Martyn Day:        

 [18756] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with reference to paragraph 3.5 of Treasury 
minutes: Government response to the Committee of Public Accounts on the Second 
report from Session 2023-24, HC 78, published 8 March 2024, how much and what 
proportion of funding to tackle RAAC concentrate in schools will come from (a) existing 
and (b) additional budget funding. 

Laura Trott: 
Government is funding the removal of RAAC present in schools and colleges either 
through grants, or through the School Rebuilding Programme. A list of education 
settings with confirmed RAAC and the funding route to remove RAAC was published 
on 8 February, available at: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/reinforced-
autoclaved-aerated-concrete-raac-management-information. 

  Tobacco: Smuggling 

Mr Virendra Sharma:        

 [19303] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, pursuant to the Answer of 6 February 2024, to 
Question 13272 on Tobacco: Smuggling, how many referrals have been made by Trading 
Standards to HMRC in the last 12 months; and how many penalties have been issued as 
a result. 

Nigel Huddleston: 
In July 2023 new powers were given to Trading Standards to make referrals to HM 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) where they find evidence of tobacco products that 
don’t comply with the UK Tobacco Track and Trace System. The referral process 
which practically implements these powers started in October 2023. HMRC 
periodically publishes outputs of its tobacco strategy, and will publish the outputs of 
its work with Trading Standards as part of future publications. 

  UK Internal Trade: Northern Ireland 

Colum Eastwood:        

 [19509] 

To ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what guidance his Department issues on the 
requirements for customs declarations for business-to-business shipments exceeding the 
value of £135 between Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 

Nigel Huddleston: 
The Government has recently issued guidance on the long-term arrangements for 
business-to-business parcels which is available on gov.uk - 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/moving-parcels-from-great-britain-to-northern-
ireland-under-the-windsor-framework-from-30-september-2024. 

  WALES 

  Tata Steel: Redundancy 

Stephen Doughty:        

 [19070] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Wales, what assessment he has made of the impact of 
potential job losses at Tata on the (a) wider supply chains and (b) economy in South 
Wales. 

David T C Davies: 
This Government is supporting Tata Steel with £500 million towards building of the 
electric arc furnace, securing the future of steelmaking at Port Talbot. This will protect 
5,000 steel jobs and thousands more in the supply chain. The Tata Steel/Port Talbot 
Transition Board has been set up to support those affected by Tata Steel’s 
decarbonisation transition, backed by a £100 million fund. Of that funding, £80 million 
is provided by the UK Government and £20 million will be provided by Tata. 

The Transition Board has commissioned the development of a Local Economic 
Action Plan to assess the economic impact in South Wales, as well as provide the 
Transition Board with advice on how to support and grow the local economy. The full 
impact of Tata Steel’s transition on the wider supply chains and the South Wales 
economy depends on the outcome of the formal consultation, which remains 
underway. 

This Government acknowledges the need for immediate as well as long-term support, 
especially in the wake of the announcement on 18 March that Tata Steel UK will 
cease operation of coke ovens at their Port Talbot site. This decision, while primarily 
an operational matter for Tata Steel UK, shows again why the UK government is right 
to step in with one of the largest support packages in our history to secure the future 
of the Welsh steel industry. 

  WORK AND PENSIONS 

  Department for Work and Pensions: Domestic Visits 

Jonathan Ashworth:        

 [19367] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, on how many occasions Ministers 
from his Department have visited (a) Wales, (b) Scotland and (c) Northern Ireland in each 
of the last three financial years. 

Paul Maynard: 
The information requested is not centrally collated and could only be obtained at 
disproportionate cost. Information on DWP ministerial gifts, hospitality, travel and 
meetings can be found at: DWP ministerial gifts, hospitality, travel and meetings -
GOV.UK(www.gov.uk) 

  Social Security Benefits 

Kenny MacAskill:        

 [19203] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, what recent assessment his 
department has made of the potential implications for household budgets of his policies 
on the (a) cap on benefits for out of work households and (b) two child limit for child 
support. 

Jo Churchill: 
It is not possible to produce a robust assessment. 

  Social Security Benefits: Children 

Kenny MacAskill:        

 [19204] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, if he will make an assessment of 
the potential impact of the two child limit on the numbers of children living in (a) absolute 
and (b) relative poverty between 2018 and 2035. 

Jo Churchill: 
It is not possible to produce a robust assessment. 

  Vacancies: South Holland and the Deepings 

Sir John Hayes:        

 [18836] 

To ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, what steps he is taking to help fill 
job vacancies in South Holland and the Deepings constituency. 

Jo Churchill: 
In South Holland and the Deepings, and across the country, our Jobcentre teams are 
supporting people back into work and those in work to progress. We are working with 
local and national employers to help fill vacancies quickly, delivering Sector-based 
Work Academy Programmes (SWAPS), recruitment days and job fairs. 

In partnership with Boston College, Net UK and Steadfast Training, we have recently 
offered SWAPs for local customers to gain skills and enhance their applications for 
Security, Construction, Fork Lift Driving and Teaching Assistant vacancies. These 
offers are repeated bi-monthly. We are also working with the Greater Lincolnshire 
Local Enterprise Partnership and Boston College to support recruitment into LGV 
driving roles via a Skills Boot Camp that has been running since early 2023. 

Our local Partnership Manager works alongside the South East Lincolnshire Council 
Partnership on Shared Prosperity Funding Grant Panels, focussed on people and 
skills, with procurement of a range of options to support the economically inactive to 
move closer to the labour market and into work. 

WRITTEN STATEMENTS 

  TREASURY 

  Scottish Government and Welsh Government funding 

The Chief Secretary to the Treasury (Laura Trott):  

         [HCWS373]        

In addition to changes in funding at Supplementary Estimates 2023-24, and in line with 
the Statement of Funding Policy, the Welsh Government has chosen to draw down 
£265.056 million in Resource DEL (excluding depreciation), £47.230m in Capital DEL 
(General) and £37.420 million in Capital DEL (Financial Transactions) from the Wales 
Reserve in 2023-24. 

The Scottish Government has confirmed that they wish to carry forward £14.758 million in 
Capital DEL (General) outside of the Scotland Reserve and defer a reduction of £52.838 
million in Capital DEL (Financial Transactions) from 2023-24 to 2024-25. 

The flexibility to carry forward funding outside the Reserve and to defer the reduction in 
Capital DEL (Financial Transactions) was exceptionally agreed to help the Scottish 
Government and Welsh Government to manage late changes to their budgets. 

Revised 2023-24 funding is as follows: 

£MILLION 

SCOTTISH GOVERNMENT 

WELSH GOVERNMENT 

Resource DEL excluding 
depreciation 1 

37,608.692 

16,718.329 

Capital DEL (General) 

6,073.634 

Capital DEL (Financial 
Transactions) 

349.926 

3,079.192 

124.682 

Total DEL  

44,032.252 

19,922.203 

1 Due to the scale of tax devolution in Scotland, Scottish Government DEL funding is 
shown excluding tax and welfare Block Grant Adjustments. Welsh Government DEL 
funding is shown including tax Block Grant Adjustments. 

 
