BUSINESS AND TRADE

Update on UK-Switzertand enhanced Free Trade Agreement
Minister of State for Trade Policy (Greg Mand): tucws3s9)

“The fourth round of negetiaions on @ UK-Switzerland enhanced Free Trade Agreement
(FTA) took place in Bern, Sitzeriand from 4 to 8 March 2024.

‘We continue to work together with the Swiss towards an ambitious trade deal. Talks
continue to be constructive and postive, with both counties focused on achieving 2
‘modem and comprehensive agreement with ambitous outcomes, intucing in areas such
‘2s senices and investment, mebily, digital andthe envionment, which ae not covered
by our existing FTA. UK-Swiss services trade was worth £279 bill inthe 12 months to
‘September 2023

"Negotiations are now focussed on text-based discussions, and we have seen progress
‘across many areas. This round, we provisionally closed the chapter on Small and
Medium Enterprises (SMES). This willhelp UK SMEs expand ther operations more easily
into the Swiss market.

We look forward t future further discussions between the UK and Switzerland to deliver
‘cur desired outcomes forthe FTA. Iti especialy important er the UK that we achieve
robily outcomes, which are atop pity for business stakeholders on both sides and
underpin any services and investment market access achoved in the FTA.

“The ith hybvid round of negotiations is expected to take place inthe UK in early summer
2028.

“The Government remains clear that any deal we sign, including that wih Switzrand, wil
be inthe best interests ofthe Bish people and he UK economy. We wil not
compromige on our high environmental and labour protections, public heath, animal
|waffare and food standards, and we wil maintain our ight to regulate inthe public
interest.

‘We ae aso clear that during these negotiations, the NHS, andthe services it provides
‘are noton the table.

His Majesty's Government wil continue to work closely wth Switzerland to ensure

egoiatons proceed at pace and tkes place on terms that are ight forthe UK. We wil
continue to keep Parlament updated as these negotiations progress.
